====================
Drag Race is in the off-season, but that doesn’t mean RuPaul is taking a break from judging: This week the Supermodel of the World will be telling them not to f*** it up on the new Game Show Network show Skin Wars, hosted by X-Men star Rebecca Romijin.

Related: RuPaul Appearing As Judge On New GSN Body-Painter Series

An eight-episode competition to find the world’s most creative body painters, Skin Wars pits 10 artists in increasingly exotic challenges involving camouflage, graffiti, multiple model installations, corporate ad campaigns, animal art, and more—with one unlucky painter made to sashay away (oops, wrong show) each episode until only a winner remains.

Joining Ru at the judges table are body-painting legends Craig Tracy and Robin Slolina, and a rotating cast of celebrity guest judges like Carson Kressley and Lynda Carter.

Below, get a sneak peek at the Skin Wars, debuting Wednesday, August 6 at 9/8c on GSN.
====================
PANJSHIR VALLEY, AFGHANISTAN -- The man who served as President Hamid Karzai's top intelligence official for six years has launched an urgent campaign to warn Afghans that their leader has lost conviction in the fight against the Taliban and is recklessly pursuing a political deal with insurgents.

In speeches to small groups in Kabul and across northern Afghanistan over the past month, Amarullah Saleh has repeated his belief that Karzai's push for negotiation with insurgents is a fatal mistake and a recipe for civil war. He says Karzai's chosen policy endangers the fitful progress of the past nine years in areas such as democracy and women's rights.

"If I don't raise my voice we are headed towards a crisis," he told a gathering of college students in Kabul.

That view is shared by a growing number of Afghan minority leaders who once participated fully in Karzai's government, but now feel alienated from it. Tajik, Hazara and Uzbek politicians have expressed increasing concern that they are being marginalized by Karzai and his efforts to strike a peace deal with his fellow Pashtuns in the insurgency.

Saleh's warnings come as the United States struggles to formulate its own position on reconciliation with the Taliban. While U.S. officials have supported Afghan government-led talks in theory, they have watched with apprehension as Karzai has pursued his own peace initiatives, seemingly without Western involvement.

NATO's senior civilian representative in Afghanistan, Ambassador Mark Sedwill, cautioned recently that "any political reconciliation process has to be genuinely national and genuinely inclusive. Otherwise we're simply storing up the next set of problems that will break out. And in this country when problems break out, they tend to lead to violence."

Still, with war costs and casualties rising, U.S. policymakers are increasingly looking for a way out, and a power-sharing deal between Karzai and the Taliban may be the best they can hope for. One senior NATO official in Kabul described Saleh as "brilliant." But the official said Saleh's hard-line stance against negotiations does not offer any path to ending the long-running U.S. war.

Saleh, 38 and a Tajik, began his intelligence career in this scenic valley north of Kabul working for the legendary guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud. He said he is not motivated by ethnic rivalries with the majority Pashtuns or by a desire to undermine Karzai, whom he describes as a decent man and a patriot.

Rather, Saleh said he wants to use nonviolent, grass-roots organizing to pressure the government into a harder line against the Taliban by showing that Afghans who do not accept the return of the Taliban are a formidable force. Saleh resigned last month as director of the National Directorate of Security after he said he realized that Karzai no longer valued his advice.

"The Taliban have reached the gates of Kabul," Saleh said. "We will not stop this movement even if it costs our blood."

Proceeding carefully



Karzai spokesman Waheed Omar declined to comment on Saleh's analysis. Karzai's government has made reconciliation a top priority, and officials say they are proceeding carefully. Karzai has invited Taliban leaders to talk, but he has said insurgents must accept the constitution, renounce violence and sever their links to foreign terrorists before they can rejoin society.

Those conditions do little to mollify Afghan minority leaders, many of whom had backed Karzai in the past but are now breaking with the president. Some are concerned that a deal between Karzai and the Taliban could spawn the sort of civil war that existed in Afghanistan prior to the U.S.-led invasion in late 2001.
====================
Want to make music on Linux with pro-quality software?

There are plenty of reasons to choose Linux over other platforms for audio production: For me, I was willing to learn some new software, and was sick of being burned by vendor lock-in, not even to mention the crazy high cost of DAW (Digital Audio Workstation) software. I wanted to have a free software audio set-up that I could "set up and forget", so I could stop wasting time tinkering with different options, and instead jump head-first into producing soundtracks for the video games I'm developing on Linux.

So, I investigated 3 different routes, and recorded my results here.

The conclusion? KXStudio is super freaking cool. Seriously: Install once and get a crazy number of instruments and effects, dozens of DAWs and sequencers, on top of a low-latency kernel, all set up and ready to go, all for free. At least in terms of quantity, it's the simplest way to go from 0 to 60 for audio production on any platform. Pro-audio in Linux is totally here.

If that sold you, then just skip over to the last section and download and install the KXStudio distro.

Option 1: Vanilla repos

LMMS is a fun music creation free software with an easy learning curve, that's actually pretty powerful. It tends to be updated quickly in vanilla repos, so go ahead and install this like you would any other Linux software.

The first -- and typically the last -- stop for any software in Linux is to install it from your distribution's repos. Easy-peasy: either use a GUI application like GNOME or Ubuntu Software (pictured right) or a command-line application such as apt-get (easy as sudo apt-get install lmms audacity to get going).

This method is fine for a few pieces of Linux audio software, notably LMMS and Audacity. However, if you want to try using the complicated stuff with JACK (Ardour1, Non Sequencer, and a bunch of other Linux pro-audio software that I didn't even know about), its not ideal: often the repo versions will be outdated, this software can be difficult to configure, and there are a lot of really cool pieces of Linux audio software that are not even available in many vanilla repos.

Option 2: Adding KXStudio repos

Playing with LMMS is fine and all, but I wanted to use JACK. I mean, its a seriously cool idea: It takes the UNIX philosophy of "small interchangeable applications connected with pipes" into the audio software world. Pipe any application into any other application, MIDI notes, control, or audio channels all get "plugs" that can hook up into each other. Pretty cool, huh? Fortunately the awesome folks at KXStudio maintain packages that make it easy to set up on Ubuntu.

Installing KXStudio repos on Ubuntu 16.04

I'd highly recommend clicking the link and using the full instructions since there's less chance of mistakes, but if you'd rather just copy and paste one huge command and leave your computer chugging, you can use this one: sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https software-properties-common wget libglibmm-2.4-1v5 && wget https://launchpad.net/~kxstudio-debian/+archive/kxstudio/+files/kxstudio-repos_9.3.0~kxstudio1_all.deb && wget https://launchpad.net/~kxstudio-debian/+archive/kxstudio/+files/kxstudio-repos-gcc5_9.3.0~kxstudio1_all.deb && sudo dpkg -i kxstudio-repos_9.3.0~kxstudio1_all.deb && sudo dpkg -i kxstudio-repos-gcc5_9.3.0~kxstudio1_all.deb && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install kxstudio-default-settings kxstudio-meta-all

Follow the instructions to set up KXStudio repos. Note the steps for versions "later than 15.10". Update apt cache:

sudo apt-get update Install all KXStudio software running this command to install these meta-packages:

sudo apt-get install kxstudio-default-settings kxstudio-meta-all

I followed these steps precisely from a vanilla Ubuntu 16.04 installation, and yet I still ran into four issues before I got audio production up and running. If you are taking this route and get stuck, then this might help: Troubleshooting KXStudio repos on Ubuntu 16.04. (I broke them off into their own post, to avoid cluttering up this article.)

All-in-all, though, the easiest and fastest way to get going with Linux pro-audio is just installing the KXStudio distro on a separate partition, which is what I ended up doing.

Option 3: The KXStudio distro

JACK lets you pipe anything into anything. This is KXStudio's Catia, one of several GUI JACK management tools.

The third option is to keep a separate partition, hard-drive, or computer with your pro-audio set-up, running a distribution dedicated to audio.

Do this one. Really. The time it took to download and install KXStudio was way less than troubleshooting the other options. It was really the only flawless Linux pro-audio experience for me, and the only one I'd recommend.2

It's really a killer feature to not have to worry about breaking your audio software with your normal installation, which you can freely keep updating, while keeping your pro-audio installation clean and stable with everything set up exactly as you need.

Download the KXStudio ISO Install it on either a separate partition or hard-drive (or a dedicated studio computer). If you've never installed a GNU/Linux distribution before, this is just like installing any other distro. (Optional) Configure GRUB to rename this installation to KXStudio (by default, it confusingly calls itself "Ubuntu"), and make it not the default (I used GRUB Customizer). Either keep the default KDE or install a different desktop environment, and then enjoy a fully-tuned Linux audio production set up!

The KXStudio develops some pretty great applications themselves. I personally like to use the following (all ready-to-use):

Cadence for JACK / audio configuration. Gives a high-level control of audio on your system.

Claudia as a "session manager". This is a nicely configured graphical front-end to LADISH, basically, a set of tools that start and stop all your other audio software, hook stuff up, and save your configuration to a project file. This is my first stop: where I start new projects. When I load old projects, it automatically starts everything I was using so I can resume exactly where I left off.

Carla to host and manage the 100s of awesome synths and effects KXStudio comes with, such as amSynth. Very importantly, it also supports directly hosting SFZ soundfonts, so I can use the free-licensed Sonatina Symphonic Orchestra and Salamander Grand Piano.

I eventually settled on MusE as my favorite sequencer. It's a bit dated in appearance, but as a former Cakewalk Sonar user I found its interface the most easy to pick up, and unlike Ardour it has pop-out piano rolls, which is a must-have for me.

Have other suggestions for Linux pro-audio? Let me know in the comments!
====================
Betsy is a black and white longhaired Border Collie, credited with being one of the world's most intelligent dogs.

Biography [ edit ]

Betsy (born 2002) lives in Vienna, Austria with her owner, who goes by the pseudonym "Schäfer" (English: Shepherd). Betsy is also a pseudonym given to her by animal cognition researchers.[1][2] At ten weeks of age, Betsy was able to sit on command and knew numerous objects, such as a ball and set of keys, by their name and would fetch them on verbal command.[3] Betsy was discovered after her owner answered a request by National Geographic Magazine to submit intelligent animals for study. Betsy was one of two dogs (both of which were Border Collies) whose intelligence was beyond that of Rico, also a Border Collie, who knows over 200 words.[4] Betsy was featured on the cover of the March 2008 edition of National Geographic.[5]

Intelligence [ edit ]

Betsy has a vocabulary of more than 340 words,[3][6] which rivals that of the great apes in terms of intelligence and lateral thinking. After hearing a word only twice, Betsy is able to decipher that the sound is a command or instruction and regards it as such.[2] Betsy is believed to learn in the same way that human toddlers do, if not faster.[1] Betsy is capable of interpreting the correlation between a two-dimensional photograph and the object it depicts, and is able to retrieve the item simply by seeing the image, despite never having seen the depicted object or the photograph before.[2] During testing, Betsy retrieved the correct item 38 out of 40 times.[7] Betsy knows 15 people by only their name.[3] It is believed that Betsy's unusual intelligence can be attributed to dogs' prolonged association with humans, evolution and her breed—the Border Collie was found to be the most intelligent breed of dog by psychology professor Stanley Coren in his book The Intelligence of Dogs.[8] Juliane Kaminski, a cognitive psychologist who tested Betsy, hypothesised that her abilities are the result of the use of the Border Collie breed as working dogs, their high motivation levels and that they historically had to pay close attention to their owners' commands when engaged in herding.[2]

See also [ edit ]
====================
Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

July 10, 2013, 8:13 PM GMT By Megan Gannon

When a runaway oil train derailed and exploded in a small town in Quebec over the weekend, it sparked an inferno that was visible from space.



The disaster in Lac-Mégantic, near the Maine border, flattened dozens of buildings and left at least 15 people dead early Saturday. As of Tuesday, authorities were still searching for 35 people who remained missing, according to Canada's Globe and Mail.

The powerful Earth-observing Suomi NPP satellite captured an image of the region at 2:59 a.m. local time (6:59 GMT) on July 6, less than two hours after the deadly derailment. A giant blaze was picked up by the spacecraft's Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS), though cloud cover at the time of the accident slightly blurs the image, according to NASA's Earth Observatory, which released the picture.

VIIRS is the largest instrument on the minivan-sized polar-orbiting Suomi NPP satellite. It's used to collect data on Earth's surface, capturing images of fires, ice, oceans, vegetation and clouds, and the suite has especially impressive nighttime capabilities.

VIIRS can pick up the glow from auroras, wildfires, city lights and reflected moonlight with its "day-night band," which detects light in a range of wavelengths from green to near-infrared. This band is primarily designed to allow scientists to collect detailed data on cloud, snow and ice formations during nighttime hours, but it's sensitive enough to pick up light from a single ship in the ocean.

According to the Earth Observatory, VIIRS can distinguish night lights with six times better spatial resolution and 250 times better resolution of lighting levels than its predecessor, the Operational Linescan System, part of the U.S. Air Force's Defense Meteorological Satellite Program.

Follow Megan Gannon on Twitter and Google+.Follow us @livescience, Facebook and Google+. Original article on LiveScience.com.




====================
Can’t stop, won’t stop bringing you all the ska. I don’t know what you do with these podcasts. You could be listening to them as you get ready in the morning, while going out for a run, dancing around your bedroom or queuing it up for your ride home from work. Whatever the case is, I’m glad you’re here and listening, thanks!

00:00 – the Heat Machine – A Drug Against War (No Coast Dance Party ’09)

03:20 – Randy Woods Band – Faded American (Randy Woods Band ’17)

06:42 – the A-OKs – Excite-O-Max (Maybe Partying Will Help ’15)

08:55 – the Pomps – If I didn’t Build it (Alternate America ’17)

11:05 – the Meow Meows – Get Off My Bench (Go Boom! ’16)

15:18 – Dan P. – Losing My Shirt (Eat the Planet ’07)

16:22 – the Big News – Trumpa Dump (Welcome to the Weird Kid’s Table ’17)

19:59 – Last Edition – Soul Bamba (Best Foot Forward ’16)

Show support for the bands by clicking on those links and checking out their websites and music! Show support for the podcast by finding & liking 23min of Ska on facebook as well as follow on twitter. Also, feel free to subscribe to the podcast on iTunes.

Also, feel free to download this episode if you wanna keep it forever.

Another way to support the podcast is to buy some records from our partners in crime over at Grandpa’s Casino Recordings, they carry some great vinyl ska records!
====================
[Contents] [PDF format] [print] Roman Buddha By William Ferraiolo “Those who teach a Dhamma for the abandoning of passion, for the abandoning of aversion, for the abandoning of delusion — their Dhamma is well-taught”. (Ājīvaka Sutta; AN 3:72) Rudyard Kipling tells us that “East is East and West is West and never the twain shall meet.”[i] To some this may seem an apt summation of the intellectual and spiritual chasm yawning between the dominant wisdom traditions originating respectively in certain areas of Asia and in the early Mediterranean city-states that spawned Western culture. The multifarious strands of Buddhism (and other Asian wisdom traditions) are often regarded as too esoteric and culturally alien for the earthy pragmatism of the industrial West and its predominantly materialistic worldview. The admonitions of the Noble Eightfold Path are all well and good for tonsured monks swaddled in flowing robes, or cave-dwelling hermits perched in the lotus position on some Himalayan mountaintop, contemplatively indifferent to “worldly” concerns, but what has all that got to do with life in the “real world” of career, family, financial obligations, and material need? In this paper, I argue that the Roman Stoic philosopher Epictetus (55-135 CE) offered practical counsel through which the West may begin to more comfortably approach Buddhism as a system of self-governance and path to awakening. Epictetus’ collected Discourses and Enchiridion offer glimpses of a spirit which Buddhist practitioners will, I think, find strikingly kindred. The West has produced intellectuals of the order of Newton and Einstein, statesmen like Churchill, and captains of industry like the Rockefellers and Bill Gates – but what are we to do with Bodhisattvas, lamas, rinpoches, and the rest? It all seems so…“Oriental”. Those Westerners on the religious quest are likely to be drawn to familiar Abrahamic traditions and have no need of exotic spirituality wafting in from the East. Furthermore, the Eastern sages seem, until recently perhaps, to have been in no particular hurry to illumine the barbarian West. There are few reports of Bodhisattvas reincarnating in this part of the world – and if one did, no one would pay much attention (with the possible exception of a few aging hippies and maybe Richard Gere). What inspires “them” is just not going to fly for “us” – and vice versa. There is a fundamental incommensurability in these competing conceptions of the human condition separating Eastern and Western approaches to the “good life”. We should not expect to find large tracts of common ground on which “the twain” may meet to share the wisdom of their respective sages. So goes an all too common misconception on both sides of the putative divide. Slave and Sage This kind of parochialism is misleading, oversimplified, and paints the relevant cultural traditions in overly stark contrast. The West has, I would argue, produced its fair share of (arguably) enlightened beings and, in at least a few instances, they have significantly influenced the evolution and development of Western culture. Socrates, Jesus and Mohammed have obviously left their marks and exhorted billions to reconsider the human condition, our relationship to the transcendent, our values, and our way of life. I would like to suggest, however, that a much lesser known and insufficiently appreciated figure may be our best hope for finding a worldview within which East and West might encounter each other in a light more felicitous to mutual understanding and appreciation. Just as it is instructive and valuable for Westerners to develop an understanding and appreciation of Buddhism and other strands of Asian philosophy and/or religion, so too is it worthwhile for Buddhists and practitioners of allied Eastern wisdom traditions to become better acquainted with like-minded intellects that contributed to the philosophical, cultural, and religious foundations of the Western world. In addition to the aforementioned figures of indisputable historic and cultural interest, one sage of the Roman Empire stands out for special (and long overdue) attention. The Roman Stoic, Epictetus, may serve as a valuable nexus through which the Buddha’s wisdom could be rendered more accessible to those reared outside of an Asian cultural context. Also, a clearer understanding of practical therapeutic philosophy as developed in the ancient West may be brought to the attention of Eastern practitioners through an exploration of the methods and application of Epictetan counsel. Certainly, in my own case, it was an appreciation of Stoicism and the wisdom of Epictetus in particular, that opened the door to Buddhism and eased those first tentative steps toward concepts such as impermanence, renunciation, and a synoptic ethic of mental discipline. Perhaps, given a bit of luck and intrepidity, fellow seekers from East and West may encounter each other and develop a richer understanding of commonalities intersecting their respective traditions and spiritual heritage. Epictetus was born a slave but ultimately became an influential teacher and philosopher whose advocacy of Stoicism had a tremendous impact on Roman culture and subsequent developments – Christianity among them. Prince Siddhartha Gautama enjoyed the material benefits of aristocratic birth but opted for a wandering homeless life, the pursuit of wisdom and mental discipline, and became, of course, one of the most influential spiritual figures in world history. The two could hardly have begun their lives in more disparate circumstances, yet Epictetus, and the man who would become known to posterity as the Buddha, arrived at very much the same understanding of the human condition and its fundamental challenges. Both keenly understood the dangers of psychological and emotional attachment to the uncontrollable vicissitudes of human experience. Both counselled renunciation of the usual worldly desires for fortune, fame, and self-aggrandizing power. Both maintained that true liberty is won through thoughtful discipline, proper conduct, and a deep, penetrating understanding of the nature of reality and one’s place within it. Though advancing somewhat different metaphysical accounts of persons and the ultimate nature of their relationship to surrounding reality, the Eastern sage and his Western counterpart both offered very similar practical programs of therapeutic guidance for the attainment of liberation from the common ills and dissatisfactions endemic to humanity. Epictetan Dharma Most people live as slaves – not in the sense in which Epictetus was literally another man’s property, but in the sense that they allow their emotional wellbeing to depend upon conditions over which they themselves have no ultimate control. They enslave themselves through irrationality, ignorance and indiscipline. Their desires are often unhealthy, unwise and all too often lead to self-destruction (to say nothing of their unfortunate impact upon others). The common result of unfulfilled desire is anger, frustration, anxiety, dissatisfaction, or what the Buddha might have called a pervasive dukkha. In the Discourses, we find Epictetus instructing his students to pay careful attention to craving, its causes and, perhaps most importantly, its likely consequences: There are three fields of study, in which he who would be wise and good must be exercised: that of the desires and aversions, that he may not be disappointed of the one, nor incur the other; that of the pursuits and avoidances, and, in general, the duties of life, that he may act with order and consideration, and not carelessly; the third includes integrity of mind and prudence, and, in general, whatever belongs to the judgment. Of these points the principal and most urgent is that which reaches the passions; for passion is only produced by a disappointment of one’s desires and an incurring of one’s aversions. It is this which introduces perturbations, tumults, misfortunes, and calamities; this is the spring of sorrow, lamentation, and envy; this renders us envious and emulous, and incapable of hearing reason. (Book III, Ch. Two) Epictetus also advises careful and consistent observation of the crucial distinction between that which conforms directly to the exertion of the will and that which depends upon factors external to the agent’s unmediated direction. Wise persons rationally control that which is within their power and remain placidly indifferent to conditions over which they have no direct influence. In so doing, the wise remain untroubled by the uncontrollable unfolding of reality, and never experience frustrated desire. They want only that which they have the power to produce and are averse only to that which they have the power to avoid. All else is accepted and embraced simply as it is: There are things which are within our power, and there are things which are beyond our power. Within our power are opinion, aim, desire, aversion, and, in one word, whatever affairs are our own. Beyond our power are body, property, reputation, office, and, in one word, whatever are not properly our own affairs. Now, the things within our power are by nature free, unrestricted, unhindered; but those beyond our power are weak, dependent, restricted, alien. Remember, then, that if you attribute freedom to things by nature dependent, and take what belongs to others for your own, you will be hindered, you will lament, you will be disturbed, you will find fault both with gods and men. But if you take for your own only that which is your own, and view what belongs to others just as it really is, then no one will ever compel you, no one will restrict you, you will find fault with no one, you will accuse no one, you will do nothing against your will; no one will hurt you, you will not have an enemy, nor will you suffer any harm. (Enchiridion I) The wise suffer no real harm because they understand that the only real harm is that to which one subjects oneself through irrational attachment. All other states of affairs are embraced, welcomed, and rendered impotent to disrupt the deep, abiding serenity born of careful attention and wise discernment. In another passage from the Discourses, we notice Epictetus describing the condition of the “good man” in terms that call to mind the Buddhist account of the arahant or the awakened practitioner: A good man is invincible; for he does not contend where he is not superior. If you would have his land, take it; take his servants, take his office, take his body. But you will never frustrate his desire, nor make him incur his aversion. He engages in no combat but what concerns objectives within his own control. How then can he fail to be invincible? (Book III, Ch. Six) Consider how closely this resembles the Buddha’s remarks concerning the equanimity of those who have conquered desire and illusion. In Bhikkhu Bodhi’s recent anthology, In the Buddha’s Words, we find these thoughts from the Dhātuvibhanga Sutta regarding the aspiring arahant: He does not construct or generate any volition tending toward either existence or non-existence. Since he does not construct or generate any volition tending toward either existence or non-existence, he does not cling to anything in this world. Not clinging, he is not agitated. Not being agitated, he personally attains Nibbāna. (2005, pp. 410; from MN 140: III 244-47) The fruits of this mental discipline are release and equanimity: He indeed is the all-vanquishing sage, The one released from all the knots Who has reached the supreme state of peace, Nibbāna, without fear from any side. (p. 422; from AN 4:23; II 23-24 – It 112; 121-23) We see that both wise men hold out the prospect of imperturbability for those who renounce transient worldly attainments and devote themselves instead to mental discipline and the extirpation of unhealthy desire, aversion and attachment. Only through turning inward and learning to govern the unruly mind and its passions may one hope to attain true wisdom and the spiritual “invincibility” of the “all-vanquishing sage”. Similarly, we need only compare a passage from the Dhammapada with a nugget of Epictetan counsel from the Enchiridion, or Handbook, to perceive a deep confluence of the flowing streams of Buddhist and Stoic wisdom regarding the renunciation of ill-will and hatred as crucial to the attainment of peace within a well-disciplined mind: ‘He abused me, he beat me, he defeated me, he robbed me’: the hatred of those who harbour such thoughts is not appeased. (Dhammapada, 3) Were it not for the citations, one would be hard pressed to discern which remark had been uttered by the Roman Stoic and which originated with the Buddha: Remember that it is not he who gives abuse or blows who insults; but the view we take of these things as insulting. When, therefore, anyone provokes you, be assured that it is your own opinion which provokes you. Try, therefore, in the first place, not to be bewildered by appearances. For if you once gain time and respite, you will more easily command yourself. (Enchiridion, 20) Is not essentially the same truth offered in both these passages? For all practical purposes, the Epictetan attitude to insult, offence and the like is indistinguishable from the Buddhist admonition to renounce unskilful thoughts such as hatred and anger. Divergence and Confluence For those who would focus on differences between Stoic and Buddhist metaphysics insofar as the two apparently diverge concerning issues such as the ontological fundamentality of impermanence, it may be instructive to note that remarks very reminiscent of the Buddha’s appear throughout Epictetus’ advice to his students regarding the insignificance of ephemeral states of affairs. Both men clearly understand the pitfalls of devotion to impermanent conditions and the liberation available to those who are able to renounce them. In a section offering advice for the attainment of tranquility, the Discourses remind us to: Remember that it is not only the desire of riches and power that debases us and subjects us to others, but even the desire of quiet, leisure, learning, or travelling. For, in general, reverence for any external thing whatever makes us subject to others…Nothing is so essential to prosperity as that it should be permanent and unhindered. (Book IV, Ch. Four) Epictetus also denigrates the common obsession with the body and its accoutrements as well as the usual assumption that the body constitutes “the self” or is, at least, indispensable to one’s well being: When you would have your body perfect, is it in your own power, or is it not? “It is not.” When you would be healthy? “It is not.” When you would be handsome? “It is not.” When you would live or die? “It is not.” Body then is not our own; but is subject to everything that proves stronger than itself…Is despising death, then, an action in our power, or is it not? “It is.”…You ought to consider your whole body as a useful ass, with a pack-saddle on, so long as possible, so long as it is allowed. But if there should come a military conscription, and a soldier should lay hold on it, let it go. Do not resist, or murmur; otherwise you will be first beaten and lose the ass after all. And since you are thus to regard even the body itself, think what remains to do concerning things to be provided for the sake of the body. If that be an ass, the rest are but bridles, pack-saddles, shoes, oats, hay for him. Let these go too. Quit them yet more easily and expeditiously. (Book IV, Ch. One) Do these passages not ring harmonious with the Buddha’s admonition to relinquish the emotional stranglehold on conditioned phenomena and self-centered desire? Bhikkhu Bodhi presents this passage from the Saṁyutta Nikāya: Suppose, monks, a dog tied up on a leash was bound to a strong post or pillar: it would just keep on running and revolving around that same post or pillar. So too, the uninstructed worldling regards form as self…feeling as self…perception as self…volitional formations as self…consciousness as self… He just keeps running and revolving around form, around feeling, around perception, around volitional formations, around consciousness. As he keeps on running and revolving around them, he is not freed from form, not freed from feeling, not freed from perception, not freed from volitional formations, not freed from consciousness. He is not freed from birth, aging, and death; not freed from sorrow, lamentation, pain, dejection, and despair; not freed from suffering, I say. (2005, pp. 39-40; SN 22:99) Such comparisons could assuredly continue and would address numerous points of intersection common to the practical counsel offered by these two sages of the ancient world. Let us, however, explore a further crucial confluence that may be overlooked due to a common misinterpretation of the Buddha’s attitude toward desire. While some may claim that the Buddha advised the complete renunciation of all desire, whereas Epictetus did not, it turns out, upon closer inspection, that Epictetan and Buddhist analyses of the propriety and value of desire and its many possible objects are far more similar than one might initially suppose. Governing Desire Students in introductory courses on Western philosophy and philosophy of religion often respond incredulously to the suggestion that enlightenment, according to the Buddha, requires the renunciation of desire. They tend to be, in the first place, very skeptical that mere mortals could possibly extirpate all desire but, more importantly, many question the wisdom and, indeed, the desirability of attaining this condition of desirelessness. What kind of life, they wonder indignantly, would that be? Wouldn’t an “enlightened” life be sedentary, boring, vapid, and without purpose? Buddhist practice may be valuable for dealing with life’s difficulties and reducing our suffering, but surely we should not completely extinguish all desire. Many of our desires, they insist, are healthy, invigorating, and imbue our endeavors with meaning and purpose. Does the Buddha really counsel the renunciation of all forms of desire, they wonder? If so, he advocates an anemic lifelessness and retreat into emotional isolation, rather than a real, full-blooded engagement with reality and our fellow human beings. Far from being a path to awakening, Buddhism, it seems to many Western students, offers to put us to sleep. This, however, is a misunderstanding of the Buddha’s analysis of desire – one that may be clarified with a bit of help from Epictetus’ counsel regarding the proper management of desire and aversion from the Stoic perspective. The Desire to Extirpate Desire In ‘Three cheers for Tanha’, Robert Morrison (Dharmachari Sagaramati) seeks to dispel some common misconceptions about the Buddha’s analysis of taṇhā and the skilful response to this condition of unenlightened existence. According to Morrison, taṇhā should be understood as: …a metaphor that evokes the general condition that all unenlightened beings find themselves in in the world: a state of being characterized by ‘thirst’ that compels a pursuit for appeasement, the urge to seek out some form of gratification. (2008) The general condition of unenlightened existence is dukkha or dissatisfaction because impermanent states of affairs do not allow for a permanent slaking of the common “thirst” for sensual gratification and pleasurable experience. New “thirsts” arise and old ones reassert themselves after relatively brief periods of abatement. Taṇhā itself, however, does not lead irretrievably to dukkha. Taṇhā can inspire skilful (kusala) effort as well as unskilful (akusala) floundering. So, we see that the real culprits are grasping, clinging and aversion regarding impermanent states that cause various forms of pleasure and/or displeasure. The extirpation of dukkha, or dissatisfaction, is not quite the same thing as, and does not necessarily require, the extirpation of all desire. We eliminate dukkha by learning to deal skillfully with our mental states and habits of cognition. We pay attention to the nature of mental states, the conditions of their arising, and their relation to subsequent unsatisfactory states of being. Aversion and desire regarding uncontrollable elements of one’s environment, other people, socio-political conditions, etc. – these invite dukkha because such conditions need not satisfy our desires and may incur our aversions. Aversion to conducting oneself in unwise or unskilful fashion, or the desire to improve one’s understanding and mental discipline, or to assist others in their attempts to improve – these are neither unhealthy nor inappropriate because one’s efforts in these areas do conform to one’s properly disciplined will. Skilful and Unskilful Cognition Morrison again points to the distinction between taṇhā as a general condition of unenlightened existence and skilful or unskilful methods of dealing with this condition: For example, if a heterosexual man encounters a very attractive woman, this will probably give rise to a pleasurable ‘feeling-sensation’, which in turn can form the condition for the arising of affects such as ‘lust’ [rāga], ‘infatuation’ [pema], etc. Whereas, if we encounter someone who tells us that we are stupid, then the ‘feeling-sensation’ is more likely to be unpleasant, which in turn can form the condition for the arising of affects such as ‘aversion’ [paṭigha] or ‘hatred’ [dosa], etc. The response to ‘feeling-sensation’ is going to be a particular affect, and taṇhā here, as I suggest, is not so much a particular affect, but is best understood metaphorically, as a general condition from which there can arise all manner of affects, including, as we shall see, what Buddhism regards as ‘skilful’ (kusala) affects, the kind of affects cultivated in an active spiritual life. (2008) Gautama’s skilful understanding of, and encounters with, taṇhā precipitated a spiritual search for liberation from the ills of unenlightened existence – a search culminating in his emergence as the man historically revered as the Buddha. Unskilful understanding of, or encounter with, taṇhā takes as its object some impermanent condition over which one has no direct control and, therefore, leads to further dukkha. Skilfulness with respect to taṇhā, however, takes as its object conditions that one can control, such as the renunciation of unwholesome attachments, and the directing of one’s mental energies so as to realize peace and equanimity. The Buddha carefully distinguished skilful from unskilful cognition, habit, and behavior. He did not simply condemn all experience of taṇhā irrespective of context or consequences. If an encounter with taṇhā does not generate dukkha or, moreover, actually facilitates the diminution of dukkha, then that experience, and a skilful understanding of it, can be part of a noble search for liberation. In ‘Desire & Imagination in the Buddhist Path’’” Thanissaro Bhikkhu makes the point that the Buddha did not regard all desire as necessarily unskilful: The notion of a skilful desire may sound strange, but a mature mind intuitively pursues the desires it sees as skilful and drops those it perceives as not. Basic in everyone is the desire for happiness. Every other desire is a strategy for attaining that happiness. You want an iPod, a sexual partner, or an experience of inner peace because you think it will make you happy. Because these secondary desires are strategies, they follow a pattern. They spring from an inchoate feeling of lack and limitation; they employ your powers of perception to identify the cause of the limitation; and they use your powers of creative imagination to conceive a solution to it. But despite their common pattern, desires are not monolithic. Each offers a different perception of what's lacking in life, together with a different picture of what the solution should be. A desire for a sandwich comes from a perception of physical hunger and proposes to solve it with a Swiss-on-rye. A desire to climb a mountain focuses on a different set of hungers — for accomplishment, exhilaration, self-mastery — and appeals to a different image of satisfaction. Whatever the desire, if the solution actually leads to happiness, the desire is skilful. If it doesn't, it's not. However, what seems to be a skilful desire may lead only to a false or transitory happiness not worth the effort entailed. So wisdom starts as a meta-desire: to learn how to recognize skilful and unskilful desires for what they actually are. (2006 – emphasis added) The wise skilfully investigate, monitor, and govern their desires, and the objects of those desires, in pursuit of liberation from the ills endemic to unenlightened existence. They do not reflexively repudiate all desire as unhealthy or inappropriate. Stephen Ruppenthal makes a similar observation in his introduction to Chapter 24 of Eknath Easwaran’s translation of the Dhammapada: All the Buddha’s teachings come round to this one practical point: to find permanent joy, we have to learn how not to yield to selfish desire. This conclusion is so contrary to human nature that it is not surprising to hear even experts maintain that in preaching the extinction of desire, the Buddha was denying everything that makes life worth living. But trishna [taṇhā] does not mean all desire; it means selfish desire, the conditioned craving for self-aggrandizement...He distinguishes raw, unregulated, self-directed trishna from the unselfish and uplifting desire to dissolve one’s egotism in selfless service of all. The person who makes no effort to go against the base craving for personal satisfaction is headed for more sorrow. (1985, p. 179 – emphasis and brackets added) So, the effort to renounce “base craving” and selfish desire is skilful and should not be disparaged simply because such effort is linked with desire. Ruppenthal pointedly inquires how such intense effort could possibly be made without the inspiration of desire for liberation from the common dissatisfactions of the all-too-human condition. He then cites the Saṃyutta Nikāya in support of his contention that the Buddha’s analysis identifies selfish desires as antecedents of dukkha, and actually extols the virtues of skilful usages of unselfish desire in generating and sustaining wholesome mental states. Here is one example of a passage Ruppenthal cites in support of his contention: If, while holding on to concentration and one-pointedness of mind, one emphasizes desire, that is concentration of desire. One generates desire for the non-arising of unwholesome states that have not yet arisen; he puts forth effort and mobilizes energy…He generates desire for the arising of wholesome states that have not yet arisen; he puts forth effort and mobilizes energy (Saṃyutta Nikāya v, 268) So, the desire for wholesome states, and behavior in accordance with that desire is skillful, whereas selfish desire for sense pleasure and gratification is unskilful and this “kama-trishna” (kāma- taṇhā) is a causal antecedent of dukkha. Skilful habits of mind and conduct tend toward satisfaction and equanimity whereas unskilfulness tends toward dissatisfaction, discontent, distress – dukkha. Buddhism’s central focus is the understanding of dukkha, its nature, origin, and prescribed methods designed to bring about its cessation. If dukkha ensues from selfish desire, enlightenment requires an understanding of criteria by which one may identify and relinquish selfish desire, as well as an understanding of the means by which one may understand and engage in skilful cultivation of appropriate desires. What exactly, though, differentiates wise encounters with desire from the thoughtless selfishness that increases and exacerbates needless suffering? Buddhist Skilfulness and Epictetan “Internals” When it comes to desire and its objects, we tend to put the cart before the horse, so to speak. A self-centered desire forms, and we set about trying to bend conditions to the satisfaction of this desire. We try, in short, to make the world as we wish it to be. In doing so, we behave unskilfully. A recalcitrant world is apt to leave us unsatisfied. There is, I claim, a way to incorporate Epictetus’ distinction between ‘internals’ (or that which is ‘up to us’) and ‘externals’ (or that which is not ‘up to us’) to clarify the Buddha’s analysis of selfish desire (taṇhā) as distinct from a skilful understanding of, and encounter with, desire, aversion, and taṇhā as the pervasive condition in which the unenlightened find themselves. Selfish desire insists that the world conform to its dictates, whereas a skilful understanding of desire involves the mental effort to produce harmony between one’s mental states and unalterable conditions of reality by deft alteration of the ‘internal’ realm of cognition. In other words, selfish desire involves an insistence upon changing the world to suit one’s whims, but skilfulness involves the effort to alter one’s consciousness and attitudes so as to embrace conditions that simply lie beyond one’s control. The Buddha and Epictetus both counselled mental discipline designed to reduce the needless suffering that inevitably results from ill-considered attitudes and desires. To insist that conditions of the ‘external’ world must be thus or so, especially when one lacks the power to produce the desired conditions, virtually assures discontent. Epictetus instructs his students about how to approach circumstances in which they encounter the pull of desire, and reveals a method for dealing wisely with this ubiquitous challenge: Why, what else but to distinguish between what is mine, and what not mine—what I can and what I cannot do? I must die; must I die groaning too? I must be exiled; does anyone keep me from going smiling and cheerful, and serene? “Betray a secret?” I will not betray it, for this is in my own power. “Then I will fetter you.” What do you say, man? Fetter me? You will fetter my leg, but not even Zeus himself can get the better of my free will…These are the things that philosophers ought to study; these they ought daily to write, and in these exercise themselves (Discourses, Book I, Ch. 1) For it makes no sense to ‘exercise’ oneself concerning matters regarding which the strength of one’s will has no purchase. It is wise to skilfully focus one’s efforts upon that which lies within one’s control, and to refrain from making demands upon, or hanging one’s contentment upon, that which one cannot control by effort of will. Rather than allowing selfless desire to ensue from our careful investigations of reality, we typically form prescriptive desires that tacitly demand conformity of a world that is almost entirely beyond our control. Epictetus perceived the perils of frustrated desire and taught that one should only desire that which one has the power directly to produce without mediation or complicity from the external world. The rest of reality’s unfolding, the “external” world, is to be embraced as it stands. The great Stoic, and one time slave, counsels his students to: Demand not that events should happen as you wish; but wish them to happen as they do happen, and your life will be serene. [Enchiridion, 8] Note that this is not the expression of a simple, fatalistic attitude, but rather a counsel to develop the mental discipline necessary to maintaining serenity no matter how surrounding events may unfold. Epictetus counselled others, but did not allow his contentment to depend upon anyone adhering to his counsel. His efforts were his to control, but he could not produce the student’s understanding or improvement by sheer force of his will. He regarded such states of affairs as “externals” and did not rely upon them to secure his happiness or contentment. There must be rational limitations on desire and/or attachment to the satisfaction thereof. This is essential to attaining tranquillity irrespective of changing external circumstances. Truth is, arguably, the sine qua non of skilfulness in matters of belief. Though much else may be said for a belief – that it is, for example, interesting, useful, comforting or pervasive – it is an epistemic failure insofar as it is untrue. The adoption of, or acquiescence in, false belief is not generally conducive to skilful interaction with the world because false beliefs do not, as it were, ‘fit’ the world with which one is engaged. Startlingly enough, the otherwise obvious implications of reality’s independence from our mental states seems to elude many of us when it comes to propriety or skilfulness in matters of desire. We inveterately fall into the habit of attempting to force the world to satisfy our desires and suffer frustration, anger, and anxiety as a result of our inability to do so. It is as if we believe that we can force a “fit” between reality and our desires, even though we recognize the hopelessness of most attempts to force a similar ‘fit’ with our beliefs. There is, I suspect, at least a flash of irony in John Searle’s characterization of the difference between our general attitudes regarding the world’s relationship to our beliefs as opposed to our desires: It is the aim of belief to be true, and to the extent that belief is true, it succeeds. To the extent that it is false, it fails. Desires, on the other hand, are not supposed to represent how the world is, but how we would like it to be…In the case of desire it is, so to speak, the responsibility of the world to fit the content of the desire. (2004, pp. 167-68) Though Searle indicates that desire takes the world to be ‘responsible’ for conformity to its dictates, we all know that the world is, of course, responsible for no such thing. It is difficult to imagine what it would mean for the world itself to have responsibilities – and one wonders what could constitute a case of the world either meeting or shirking putative responsibilities. Facts need not conform to one’s stubbornly fixed beliefs or desires. The Inward Turn Epictetus advised that our efforts should be directed only at “objects,” or conditions, lying within our sphere of direct influence. Only those parts of the world (the ‘inner’ world) that conform directly and without mediation to one’s will are likely to conduce to the alleviation of distress and dissatisfaction – or what the Buddha regarded as dukkha. Again, Epictetus made this distinction between ‘internals’ and ‘externals’ a centrepiece of his counsel regarding the conduct of a well-regulated, rational lifestyle: Remember that desire demands the attainment of that of which you are desirous; and aversion demands the avoidance of that to which you are averse; that he who fails of the object of his desires is disappointed; and he who incurs the object of his aversion is wretched. (Enchiridion, 2) This is a central purpose of the Stoic’s practice of self-discipline: So, in our own case, we take it to be the work of one who studies philosophy to bring his will into harmony with events; so that none of the things which happen may happen against our inclination, nor those which do not happen be desired by us. Hence they who have settled this point have it in their power never to be disappointed in what they seek, nor to incur what they shun; but to lead their own lives without sorrow, fear, or perturbation, and in society to preserve all the natural or acquired relations of son, father, brother, citizen, husband, wife, neighbour, fellow traveller, ruler, or subject. Something like this is what we take to be the work of a philosopher (Discourses, p. 122) It should be noted that bringing one’s ‘will into harmony with events’ does not imply a reflexive fatalism or simple-minded acquiescence irrespective of circumstances, but rather a recognition that many states of affairs are not, as Epictetus would put it, ‘up to us’. One should not, for example, simply shrug at the criminal or refrain from attempting to reform him (if this appears possible). It may well be advisable, in fact, to imprison him (if he seems incorrigible). One should, however, recognize that criminality might (and probably will) persist irrespective of one’s best efforts to dissuade criminals or counsel their rehabilitation. It is folly to peg one’s contentment to another person’s behavior or to defer equanimity until such time as all persons and conditions conform to one’s stubbornly held conceptions of how things ‘ought to be’. The wise (or the skilful) understand the distinction between those conditions that lie within their control and those conditions that do not. It is selfish (or self-centered) desire that attempts to impose its dictates upon those phenomena over which it ultimately has no control. The self - or what one conceives of as the self - makes demands upon the ‘external’ world, or upon ‘things which are beyond our power’, as Epictetus puts it. This is the hallmark of selfish, or irrational and unskilful, desire. The ‘I’ insists upon having its way – ‘The world must obey me!’ Healthy (or skilful) desire, on the other hand, seeks to alter ‘internal’ states that are ‘within our power’, such as aversion, craving, attitude, etc. Skilful desire impels one to set about producing ‘inner’ conformity with unalterable ‘external’ conditions. This type of desire is adaptive to changing and uncontrollable conditions of reality. Selfish desire seeks to impose itself upon other persons and states of affairs in the world ‘out there’. When combined with the urge to eradicate those who disagree with one’s world-view, this tends to generate needless conflict and suffering ensues. One may, of course, attempt to enlighten other persons, teaching them methods whereby they may attain serenity or equanimity, thereby attempting to ‘make the world a better place’, but whether others heed that counsel is beyond the teacher’s control. It is worth noting that wise men such as the Buddha and Epictetus were, after all, sometimes ignored and even ridiculed. Instead, we must embrace the world, its people, and its conditions by skilfully relinquishing the insistence that they must change in one way or another, and by employing rationally directed desire as a means of generating equanimity irrespective of the vicissitudes of our experience. One need not renounce the desire to accept, embrace, or desist in one’s opposition to conditions that lie beyond one’s control. One need not renounce the desire for “self”-improvement and “self”-control, or even the desire to attempt to teach others how to improve themselves. Such desires, properly managed, may be very useful tools in the effort to reduce needless suffering. Epictetus and the Buddha do not proffer identical conceptions of the nature of the “self,” but this does not preclude a deep confluence of practical counsel regarding the proper governance of desire and its relationship to living a wise and tranquil life. Conclusion Ancient Rome produced a sagacious counselor steeped in the Western milieu, and Epictetus’ wisdom survives and inspires even up to the present day, though the source of that wisdom is woefully under-appreciated and infrequently acknowledged. Epictetus’ analysis of the distinction between “internals” and “externals” provides one useful way for Westerners to conceive Buddhist skilfulness with respect to desire and its possible concomitants. Epictetan counsel undoubtedly departs from the Buddha’s world-view in certain respects (e.g. Stoic pantheism), but we should not, therefore dismiss it as entirely alien to, or incompatible with, the Dhamma. Indeed, differences in manifestation are to be expected when the same truths are approached from disparate socio-cultural and historical starting points. Let us be prepared to explore, investigate, and respect wise counsel wherever we may find it – irrespective of cultural, geographical, or historical origin. Let us embrace all that is to be valued within our own heritage, but also reach out to find points of contact upon which further and richer understanding may develop between spiritual pilgrims from all points of the compass, thereby providing for mutual enrichment of their respective traditions and practices. We may find connections uniting us at greater depths than we had previously fathomed. References Bhikkhu Bodhi – trans. (2005) In the Buddha’s Words: An Anthology of Discourses from the Pali Canon. Somerville, MA: Wisdom Publications, Inc.

Somerville, MA: Wisdom Publications, Inc. Easwaran, Eknath – trans. (1985) The Dhammapada . Chapter introductions by Stephen

. Chapter introductions by Stephen Ruppenthal. Tomales, California: Nilgiri Press.

Irvine, William (2006) On Desire: Why We Want What We Want. New York: Oxford University Press.

New York: Oxford University Press. Epictetus (1944) Discourses and Enchiridion . Thomas W. Higginson (trans.). New York:

. Thomas W. Higginson (trans.). New York: Walter J. Black, Inc. (Higginson’s translation is an adaptation of Elizabeth Carter’s (1910), Everyman, Dent and Dutton, London.)

Morrison, Robert (Dharmachārin Sāgaramati) (2008) “Three Cheers for Taṇhā”. Western Buddhist Review. www.westernbuddhistreview.com/vol2/tanha.html

Novak, Phillip (1995) The World’s Wisdom: Sacred Texts of the World’s Religions. New York: Harper Collins.

New York: Harper Collins. Rahula, Walpola (1959) What the Buddha Taught. New York: Grove Weidenfeld.

New York: Grove Weidenfeld. Searle, John (2004) Mind: A Brief Introduction. New York: Oxford University Press.

New York: Oxford University Press. Sumedho, Ajahn (1991) The Way It Is. Hertfordshire, England: Amaravati Publications.

Hertfordshire, England: Amaravati Publications. Thanissaro Bhikkhu – trans. (1999) Ajivaka Sutta. www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/an/an03/an03.072.than.html

www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/an/an03/an03.072.than.html Thanissaro Bhikkhu (2006) “Desire & Imagination in the Buddhist Path”. www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/thanissaro/pushinglimits.html (revised 08/14/2007) [i] Kipling, Rudyard (1889) “The Ballad of East and West.” (Search web for whole poem.) About the Author: William Ferraiolo received a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Oklahoma in 1997. Since then, he has been teaching philosophy at San Joaquin Delta College in Stockton, California. Some recent publications include: Cynical Maxims and Marginalia, (Universe, 2007), "Against Compatibilism: Compulsion, Free Agency and Moral Responsibility," Sorites (2005), and "Free Will, Determinism, and Stoic Counsel," Ars Disputandi (2006). Top
====================
I love refactoring. It is highly risky and challenging as I might break the production system and loose business. At the same time, it's a rewarding experience to improve the code which is less performing or buggy. For the past couple of months, I was working on a legacy codebase to introduce a number of new features and change the whole UI. Needless to say, this shouldn't break any existing functionality. We should also be able to enable the new features internally or for some users and others shouldn't notice anything.

So we followed a technique called Branch by Abstraction. This is a simple technique where we create an abstraction layer that will decide which code path to run based on the decision-making logic. This can be as simple as

function checkPermission($param) { if(feature_enabled('new_version')) { return improvedPersmissionCheck($param); } else { return legacyPermissionCheck($param); } }

In this way, we can run both versions of the code without breaking the production system. We can have unit tests to check if both code works as we expect. But how do we make sure both functions returns the same result all the time? There can be some edge cases where both functions behave differently. How can we tackle those cases?

Meet Scientist

Last month Github released a shiny Ruby library called Scientist, which will help us to tackle this problem. Dayle Rees ported this library to PHP, so that we can use this in our PHP applications also. Scientist provides a way to run both versions of the code and generates a report with some insights like, whether the results matches or not, time took to run each version, etc. We can use these insights to figure out the scenarios where the refactored code doesn't work as we expected. This library has been ported to different languages.

How it works?

Scientist works by creating an experiment around the code that we want to try. We need to create callbacks around the original code (Control) and refactored code (Trial) that we want to experiment. Scientist will run both functions and return the result of Control while generating a detailed report of its findings. Scientist doesn't know what to do with the report, so we need to create Journals to handle them.

Enough talk, let's see the code.

Imagine we have a Post model with some access control checks.

<?php namespace App\Models class Post extends Model { ... public function hasAccess($user) { if($user->role == 'admin') { return true; } return false; } ... }

Now we want to move the roles into a new table and add a new method in User model to check if the user has admin role.

<?php namespace App\Models; class Post extends Model { ... public function hasAccess($user) { if($user->hasRole('admin')) { return true; } return false; } ... }

As you can see, this is a minor but critical code change. If the tables are out of sync, it is possible that the new function may return a different result for the same user. We want to make sure this change doesn't allow any unauthorized users to access the posts. Let us see how we can use Scientist to experiment this change.

Installation

Before we do anything, we need to install Scientist package in our project. Using composer,

composer install daylerees/scientist

Using Scientist

In this case, we can convert the old and new code into two different functions. legacyAccessCheck has the existing logic which we trust (Control) and newAccessCheck has the new logic which we want to test (Trial).

public function legacyAccessCheck($user) { if($user->role == 'admin') { return true; } return false; } public function newAccessCheck($user) { if($user->hasRole('admin')) { return true; } return false; }

Then we convert hasAccess method to a proxy for these functions and use Scientist to carry out the experiment.

public function hasAccess($user) { $laboratory = new \Scientist\Laboratory; $experiment = $laboratory->experiment('experiment name') ->control([$this, 'legacyAccessCheck']) ->trial('first trial', [$this, 'newAccessCheck']); return $experiment->run($user); }

Let's discuss the code line by line.

$laboratory = new \Scientist\Laboratory;

All Scientific experiments need to be carried out inside a Laboratory. So first we have to create a Laboratory object, using which we can create as many experiments as we need. Laboratory also allows us to configure Journals to handle the experiment report.

$experiment = $laboratory->experiment('experiment name');

This will create a new experiment with the given name. Providing a name will help us in handling reports.

$experiment->control([$this, 'legacyAccessCheck']); $experiment->trial([$this, 'newAccessCheck']);

This will register our control and trial callbacks.

By default, Scientist runs the trial callback whenever it runs the experiment. Sometimes this might affect the performance, especially on high traffic servers. Optionally, we can specify a percentage chance of running an experiment using the chance method.

$experiment->chance(50);

Then we run the experiment.

return $experiment->run($user);

Like I mentioned earlier, it will run both control and trail functions, but will only return the result of the control function, the one that we trust.

Journals

So far so good, we created an experiment, ran both versions of our code and it returns the result of our old version. But what about the findings? We didn't tell our Scientist about what to do with the findings. We need to create Journals to handle the experiment report. Once we configure the Journals (Yes, we can have multiple Journals), Scientist sends the report to them. It is then the responsibility of Journals to decide what to do with the result, whether to save it in a data store or send to monitoring services.

Journals should implement Scientist\Journals\Journal interface, which should have a report method. For example.

<?php namespace App\Journals; use Scientist\Report; use Scientist\Experiment; use Scientist\Journals\Journal; class DatabaseJournal implements Journal { /** * Dispatch a report to storage. * * @param \Scientist\Experiment $experiment * @param \Scientist\Report $report * * @return mixed */ public function report(Experiment $experiment, Report $report) { $control = $report->getControl(); $trial = $report->getTrial('first trial'); // Store the report in database $data = [ 'name' => $experiment->getName(), 'params' => json_encode($experiment->getParams()), 'value' => $trial->getValue(), 'matches' => $trial->isMatch(), 'trial_memory' => $trial->getMemory(), 'control_memory' => $control->getMemory(), 'exception' => $trial->getException() // if any ]; ... } }

Once we create a Journal, we need to register it with the Laboratory.

$laboratory->addJournal( new DatabaseJournal );

Alternatively, we can register multiple Journals using setJournals method.

$laboratory->setJournals([ new DatabaseJournal, new RedisJournal ]);

Now the findings of our experiment will be passed to report method, where $experiment is the instance of the current experiment being run.

Exceptions

We don't want our users to see any exceptions that are thrown by our experimental code. Scientist suppresses any exceptions that are thrown by trials, but keeps them in the report. This way we can analyze the exceptions and fix them accordingly.

Custom Matchers

We can also define custom matchers to override the default matcher, which compares the results using "===". A matcher should implement Scientist\Matchers\Matcher interface, which should have match method to compare the result from both control and trial.

Caveats

It doesn't make much sense to use Scientist to experiment the code which has some side effects like creating file, update database, etc.

Obviously, there will be some performance overhead as we have to run two methods at the same time. Consider adjusting the chance to a less value minimize the overhead.

Summary

If you are refactoring an existing project, I would highly recomment using Scientist to experiment your changes. I would say Scientist is not just a library, but a pattern for refactoring legacy code. Scientist can help us to refactor and release our codebase with confidence while providing meaningful insights about the execution of different code paths.

We should also be mindful of the cost of running experiments in production. So instead of running the experiments for every request, we can configure it to run on only a small percentage.
====================
History

The origins of the Zarathushti faith (also known as Zoroastrianism or Zarathushtrianism) are lost in antiquity, but it has left a timeless legacy to world religious thought that is as relevant today as when it was revealed over 3 millennia ago.

Asho Zarathushtra (Zoroaster to the Greeks), prophet of the world’s oldest revealed religion, lived in remote antiquity, sometime around the dawn of the Iranian bronze age, circa 1,800 – 1,100 BCE. His place of birth was in the ancient land of Airyana Vaeja in Central Asia, possibly somewhere around the Aral Sea. In his thirtieth year, Asho (righteous) Zarathushtra received the revelation and started on his mission to bring His message to mankind.

One of Zarathushtra’s first disciples was King Vistaspa, ruler of Bactria. Thereafter, the religion spread far and wide. For a thousand years (559 BCE to 651 CE) it was the dominant religion during three mighty Persian empires that stretched west towards Rome and Greece, east into India, north into Russia and south into Egypt, with followers in the millions.

It was the State religion of the Persian Achaemenian Empire founded by Cyrus the Great in 559 BCE, but suffered a setback with the conquest of Persia in 334 BCE by Alexander of Macedonia, when the magnificent Persepolis, seat of the Persian empire, was destroyed, libraries and religious texts burned, and the treasury plundered.

The Persian Empire of the Parthians (250 BCE to 227 CE) witnessed the birth of Christ and the rise of Christianity. The Zarathushti religion was rejuvenated as the Imperial religion of the Sasanian Persian Empire (226 CE to 651 CE) but reeled once again with the advent of Islam. After a crucial battle in 641 CE with the Arabs, sovereignty passed into the hands of the Islamic caliphs.

Over the ensuing dispiriting years, a large number of Zarathushtis accepted Islam, some continued to practice their faith under oppressive conditions in Persia, while a few fled in sailing vessels, landing on the western shores of India in the 10th century, and given refuge by the native Hindu ruler. Their descendants, the Parsis, still keep their faith alive in India.

Zoroastrians in Iran

For centuries after the Arab invasion in 641 CE, Zoroastrians (or Zarathushtis) in Iran practiced their faith in quiet seclusion, in the face of extreme persecution. As opportunities presented them- selves in the 20th century, they moved from the rural areas towards business, the professions and industry. Zoroastrian entrepreneurs were the first to introduce English and sports in schools; modernize irrigation and agriculture; set up steel, aluminum and plastic factories; promote a small scale automobile industry; start large scale construction projects; and endow hospitals and schools. In less than a century, Zoroastrians excelled in all walks of life – government, business, industry, arts and sciences.

Zoroastrians in India – The Parsis

Despite having lived in India for over a thousand years, the Parsis have maintained their religious identity, primarily because they did not proselytize. Over the centuries they have assimilated three separate cultures – the ancient Persian, the Indian and the Western. A miniscule minority in India (less than .01% of the population), the Parsis have influenced the country well out of proportion to their numbers. Enterprising, highly literate and reputed for their honesty, they occupy a position of distinction in the business community. Under British rule in the 19th century, the Parsis became the earliest Indian industrialists and built the first great Indian industrial projects – ship building, aviation, steel, textiles, chemicals, nuclear energy, and have excelled in the arts and sciences. Noted for their integrity, philanthropy and pioneering spirit, they have founded hospitals, schools and other institutions, liberally extending their philanthropy beyond their own community.

Present Day Zoroastrians

The number of Zoroastrians in the world today is about 200,000, with the highest concentrations in the ‘homelands’ of Iran (24,000 – 90,000) and India (70,000). In the past half century, Zarathushtis have emigrated around the world, seeking higher education and better opportunities. Wherever they have settled – in USA (11,000), Canada (6,000), Great Britain (5,000), Australia and New Zealand (3,500), Persian Gulf (2,200), Pakistan (2,200), Europe (1,000), the Far East (400) and elsewhere – Zoroastrians have prospered in business and the professions and served well the countries of their adoption. Possibly, the most notable Zarathushtis in the west today are Maestro Zubin Mehta and rock star Freddie Mercury. Enterprising immigrants continue to bring with them their skills and talents, their willingness to work and determination to succeed. They also bring their faith, culture, customs, language and arts – the legacy of a centuries-old tradition that fits surprisingly well into the modern-day world.

Looking to the Future

The survival of the Zoroastrian religion over 3,500 years, is remarkable when one considers the devastations it has suffered in conquests, destruction of scriptures, annihilation of priests, persecution of believers and forced conversions, and more recent doctrinal disputes, threat of declining numbers and cultural and religious assimilation. This is compounded by the fact that Zoroastrianism is traditionally a non-proselytizing faith.

But the religion is not ready to be relegated to the history books just yet. It is perhaps its core beliefs that impel its followers to excel in all areas of human endeavor and contribute for the benefit of humankind. There has been a strong awakening in recent years. In North America, there are now eight Zoroastrian temples, twenty-four associations and one North America federation (FEZANA), providing a strong communal infrastructure. Zoroastrian presence is increasingly evident in the interfaith arena, helping to restore the religion to its rightful place as a venerable and living member of the world’s religious family.

Despite the vicissitudes of time and history, the essence of Zarathushtra’s timeless and universal message has been preserved and perpetuated, as new generations recognize the remarkable relevance of this ancient faith in today’s world.

The Zoroastrian Ethic

Zarathushtra preached the monotheistic religion of the one supreme God, Ahura Mazda (Wise Lord). His message is a positive, life-affirming one, which demands not so much belief, as reason and action on the part of every individual. His was not a prescriptive ethic, based on obedience, fear or love, but rather, an ethic of personal responsibility. Zarathushtra asked his listeners to think with a clear mind, and choose a life of intelligent reflection and active benevolence.

A Zoroastrian is taught to lead an industrious, honest and charitable life. There is no place for asceticism. The generation of wealth, is part of the ethos, as long as it is achieved honestly, and used for good and charitable purposes. The quintessences of his teachings are embodied in the triad Humata (Good Thoughts), Hukhta (Good Words) and Huvarshta (Good Deeds). The loftiest ideal for man is to emulate the Amesha Spentas or attributes of Ahura Mazda:

Vohu Manah is the Good Mind. Man must think for himself before he can believe. He has the freedom to choose between good and evil, and the responsibility to reap the consequences.

Asha Vahishta is the Divine Law – It embodies Righteousness, Truth, Wisdom, Justice and Progress. Every Zarathushti strives to follow the Path of Asha in its deepest spiritual sense.

Kshathra Vairya is Divine Strength and Service, leading to the ideal society.

Spenta Armaiti, the Benevolent Spirit, is Ahura Mazda’s Purity and Devotion.

Haurvatat (Progression and Perfection) and Ameratat (Immortality and Everlasting Bliss) are the twin rewards of a righteous life.

Zoroastrian View of the World

Zarathushtra presents a view of the world in which Ahura Mazda originally creates an ideal existence in accordance with the Law of Asha. As the world progresses there is conflict between the forces of Good (Spenta Mainyu) and Evil (Anghra Mainyu). In this cosmic drama, man is not a bystander, but rather, the prime agent through whose actions the ultimate triumph of good over evil is assured. Ahura Mazda gives man not only the freedom to choose between good and evil, but also the responsibility to actively promote good and vanquish evil. Through the collective good acts of humanity, the world evolves towards the final resurrection (Frashokereti), when all will be in a state of perfection (Haurvatat) and everlasting bliss (Ameratat).

Stewardship of Nature

Harmony between man and nature, respect for all of Creation – Fire, Sun, Earth and Water, and promoting a mutually beneficial existence with these elements, is central to Zoroastrian thought, placing this ancient religion well ahead of its time.

Sacred Texts

The corpus of Zoroastrian sacred literature is known as the Avesta, written in the ancient Avestan language. It comprises of: the Yasna, the central ritual of worship, within which are preserved the Gathas – divinely inspired and revealed poetry composed by the prophet himself; the Visperad (minor liturgical works); the Vendidad (priestly code of protection); and the Khordeh Avesta (collection of prayers for the laity including the daily Kushti prayers, Niyayesh and Yasht devotional invocations and Nirang incantations).

The Role of Fire

Zoroastrian rituals and prayers are solemnized in the presence of a Fire, which is scrupulously tended with sandalwood and frankincense and kept burning in a silver urn in the inner sanctum of every Zoroastrian ‘fire-temple’ also called a ‘Darbe Mehr’ (house of divine light). Fire is revered as a visible symbol of the Inner Light, the divine spark, that burns in each and every heart; a physical representation of the Illumined Mind, Enlightenment and Truth. It is important to note that Zoroastrians do not “worship fire,” as the religion denounces the worship of any idols or deities.

Navjote or Sedreh-Pushi (Initiation) Ceremony

A child is officially initiated into the Zoroastrian faith with the Navjote ceremony, at which time he or she is invested with the sacred Sudreh and Kushti. The Sudreh is an undershirt of white muslin with a symbolic pocket in front reminding the wearer to fill it every day with Good Thoughts. Good Words and Good Deeds. The Kushti, a woolen cord, signifies that the wearer has girded him or herself to fight evil. The child henceforth pledges to steadfastly follow the teachings of Zarathushtra, and to reaffirm his/her faith with the Kushti ritual every day.

The Marriage Ceremony

Marriage is a pious duty, a religious sacrament, a holy union of two souls, and not just a social or legal contract. The marriage pact, based on sharing, devotion, faithfulness and self-sacrifice, is considered irrevocable. A wedding is a time of great rejoicing, with feasting and dancing in the company of family and friends. At the ceremony, the priests recite passages from the Avesta, offering affirmations, admonitions and benedictions, while showering the couple with rice and rose petals.

Death and the Funeral Ceremony

Death is viewed as a transformation, a time of passing of the spiritual elements from the physical body. It is one’s soul that chooses between good and evil in this life; and it is the soul that is responsible for these actions and gets rewarded (in heaven) or retribution (in hell) after death. Ultimately, Evil shall be vanquished by Good, and all souls will be raised in a blissful state, (Frashokereti). Upon death, extensive prayers and rituals are performed, to ensure a safe passage of the soul into the spiritual realm.

Zarathushtra and the Greeks

The Greeks, who studied the philosophy of the Persian prophet, dating him “5,000 years before the Siege of Troy” [Plutarch], mistranslated his name as ‘Zoroaster’. His doctrine is mentioned by Greek writers Plato, Socrates and Aristotle, who studied under the Magi (Zarathushti priests) of their times. During the Achaemenian Persian period, a number of books circulated through the Greek world in the name of Zoroaster to lend them authority. The long saga of the wars between the Greeks and the Persians is recorded in Herodotus’ History (5th century BCE).

Zarathushtra and the Romans

In Hellenistic and Roman times the image of Persia was a land of mystery, wisdom and learning. Its religious teachings appealed to the conquering Roman soldiers, who then transferred it across the empire in the form of Mithraism, an offshoot of Zoroastrianism. Mithraism flourished in the Parthian period, around the same time as Christianity. It rapidly spread as far west as England and as far east as India, until it succumbed to the rise of Christianity in the 4th century CE. Hundreds of Mithraic temples have been discovered across Europe, the latest one unearthed by construction workers in London in the 1970s.

Interactions with Judaism and Christianity

Zarathushti ideas have played a vital role in the development of western religious thought. Some theological concepts shared by Zoroastrianism with Judaism and Christianity are:

Belief in one supreme and loving God.

Heaven and Hell, and individual judgment.

Ultimate triumph of Good over Evil.

Strict moral and ethical code.

The Messiah to come for the final restoration.

The concepts of resurrection, final judgment and life everlasting.

The words ‘satan’, ‘paradise’ and ‘amen’ are of Zoroastrian origin.

The interchange of Zoroastrian thought with Judeo-Christian ideology first took place when Cyrus the Great defeated the Assyrians and released the Jews from Babylonian captivity. They heralded Cyrus as their Messiah, as prophesied in the Bible, [Isaiah 44:28 and 45:1-31]. The Old Testament is replete with references to the Persian emperors Darius, Cyrus and Xerxes.

The commemoration of December 25th as the birthday of Christ has its origins in early Mithraic observances. This was the date of a Roman festival to celebrate natalis solis invicti, the “birthday of the unconquered Sun,” which, following the winter solstice, once again begins to show an increase in light. Around 336 CE, the church in Rome established the commemoration of the birthday of Christ on this same date.

Zoroastrians had a belief in the coming of a savior, born of a virgin mother, who would bring the revelation from God. It is of interest to note that the Three Wise Men (magi) who heralded the infant Christ were Zoroastrian priests. To this day, frankincense and myrrh are offered at the altars of Zoroastrian fire temples.

Dr. Mary Boyce [Zoroastrians, 1979] writes: “So it was out of a Judaism enriched by five centuries of contact with Zoroastrianism, that Christianity arose in the Parthian period, a new religion with roots thus in two ancient faiths, one Semitic, the other Persian. Doctrines taught perhaps a millennium and a half earlier by Zoroaster began in this way to reach fresh hearers.”

Interactions with Hinduism1

Having come from the same Indo-Iranian roots, in remote antiquity, Hindus and ancient Persians shared a common pre-Zarathushti Mazdayasni faith. They practiced reverence for the fire and other natural elements. Both, in the Zarathushti Avesta and in the Hindu Vedic hymns, Mithra (Mitra) is invoked as the Lord of Heavenly Light. The Avesta language of the Gathic scriptures and Sanskrit of the Vedas originated from the same Indo-Iranian philological family and bear some striking similarities. The Zarathushti belief of the world moving towards perfection (haurvatat) and the final renovation (frashokereti) is very well explained in the Upanishads of the Hindus. In the Vedas the word Rita has the same significance (truth, righteousness) as the word Asha in the Avesta. After the Islamic conquest of ancient Persia (Iran) a group of Zarathushtis migrated to India in search of a safe haven to practice their religion without the fear of persecution. After a millennium of living in Hindu India, a number of ceremonial aspects of Hindu culture have been integrated into the Parsi Zarathushti tradition.

The Hindu concept of reincarnation (one soul entering innumerable different bodies) and Zarathushti resurrection (the same soul re-uniting with the same body at the end of time) are incompatible. Through detachment and renunciation of this corporeal world or body, the Hindu strives to escape from the cycle of birth, life and death so the soul may be freed to ultimately become one with the Absolute. To a Zarathushti, however, life is to be lived to the fullest in this world. One seeks salvation through an ethic of personal responsibility. Every good thought, word and action of a person furthers, cumulatively, the cosmic goal of moving towards frashokereti.

– by Rohinton M. Rivetna (1st edition 1983). Edited by FEZANA Publication Committee (2nd edition 2005)

1 The Legacy of Zarathustra: an Introduction to the Religion, History and Culture of the Zarathushtis (Zoroastrians), Ed. Roshan Rivetna. FEZANA, 2002
====================
LONDON (Reuters) - A medical journal criticized British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline on Thursday for delaying access to key data from a trial of its antidepressant Seroxat that would have shown earlier that it is neither safe or effective in adolescents.

A Seroxat box and pills are seen in this illustration picture taken in Bucharest April 19, 2013. REUTERS/Bogdan Cristel

The widely used medicine, known generically as paroxetine, is linked to an increased risk of suicide in young people and has carried a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) “black box warning” advising against its use in adolescents since 2004.

Britain’s Medicines and Healthcare Products

Regulatory Agency recommended in 2003 that antidepressants like Seroxat should not be used in children or adolescents, and European regulators followed suit in 2005.

But, writing in the British Medical Journal (BMJ), researchers who re-analysed a Seroxat study first published in 2001 said the drug’s dangerous side effects could easily have been highlighted years earlier.

“This is fundamentally about correcting the scientific record,” said Peter Doshi of the University of Maryland School of Pharmacy in the United States, a BMJ associate editor.

The re-analysis used previously unseen data from records of patients involved in the trial and found that at least 12 out of 93 children taking the drug had developed suicidal thoughts.

The 2001 Seroxat study, funded by GSK, is the first trial to be re-analysed under a BMJ initiative called Restoring Invisible and Abandoned Trials (RIAT), designed to encourage pharmaceutical firms to publish or correct abandoned or misreported drug trials.

The aim is to ensure doctors and patients have complete, accurate information to make treatment decisions.

GSK’s original study was published in the Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in 2001 and reported paroxetine as safe and effective for adolescents.

GSK — which in 2012 was fined $3 billion for fraudulently promoting several drugs, including paroxetine — responded to the BMJ re-analysis by saying it had helped by providing access to detailed data from the original trial.

“This reflects our commitment to data transparency,” the company said, adding it had now pledged to publish the results of all its studies, whether they are positive or negative.

It also agreed Seroxat should not be given to young people.

“There is an increased risk of suicidality in pediatric and adolescent patients given antidepressants like paroxetine,” GSK said. “This is widely known and clear warnings have been in place on the product label for more than a decade.”

Doshi argued, however, that the case showed why full patient data should published alongside original scientific analyses.

“What would have happened if this data were available 15 years ago when the study was originally published?,” he said. “Would the black box warnings from the FDA have come earlier?”
====================
Two Philadelphia police officers are facing federal charges related to an incident where a woman was allegedly forced to strip naked while one of the accused officers pleasured himself.

Former Police Officer Joseph Harvey and Officer Sean Cahill, both of Philadelphia, were arrested on Wednesday.

According to the indictment, on October 8, 2009, Harvey used his power as a police officer to order the victim to remove all of her clothing and sit naked while he pleasured himself.

The indictment goes on to claim that when questioned about the incident, Officer Cahill falsely claimed to have been with Harvey at the time, telling FBI investigators that Harvey was never alone with the woman in an alleged attempt to discredit the victim.

Harvey, 39, is charged with deprivation of civil rights under color of law. If convicted, he faces a maximum term of one year in prison, a $100,000 fine, and a $100 special assessment.

Officer Cahill, 34, is charged with making a material false statement. If convicted, Cahill faces a maximum term of five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, up to three years supervised release, and a $100 special assessment.

Cahill, a 10-year veteran assigned to the 24th District, has been suspended for thirty days with the intent to dismiss.

Harvey was a 7-year veteran, previously assigned to the 24th District.
====================


Bernie Sanders holds a campaign rally in Boise, Idaho, this week. (Brian Losness/Reuters)

SAN DIEGO — Democratic presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders continued to maintain Wednesday that he has “a path toward victory” against Hillary Clinton but shared part of his reasoning for staying in the race regardless.

The senator from Vermont said that his goal is to defeat the Republican nominee in November and suggested that a 50-state Democratic contest will help with that task.

“The way you do that is to generate a lot of grass-roots enthusiasm, and the way you generate grass-roots enthusiasm is to have real debates on the real issues facing the American people and campaign in every state in this country,” Sanders told reporters in this city, where he held a large-scale rally Tuesday night. “That’s how you bring people together.”

[Bernie Sanders trades laughs, serious talk with Jimmy Kimmel on latest day of Democratic voting]

Sanders cited the long lines to participate Tuesday night in Idaho and Utah, the two caucus states where he scored decisive wins against Clinton.

“Those people will vote in November,” he said. “It is absolutely essential that we contest every state in this country.”

Sanders’s assessment came the morning after he lost to Clinton in Arizona, 58 percent to 40 percent, but walked away with nearly 80 percent of the vote in Idaho and Utah.

Sanders two lopsided victories netted him more delegates than Clinton on Tuesday, but her lead is still formidable. Among pledged delegates needed for the nomination, the former secretary of state leads 1,214 to 911, according to an Associated Press tally. She also has a commanding advantage among the Democratic elected officials and other party leaders known as “superdelegates.”

Sanders told reporters at a hotel here that he thought he had “an extraordinary night” on Tuesday and also cited a victory over Clinton announced earlier this week in a primary consisting of Americans living abroad.

“We have closed the delegate gap by some 25 delegates in the last week,” he said.

Asked about his path ahead, Sanders cited upcoming contests on Saturday that he said he could win in Washington state, Alaska and Hawaii, as well as primaries down the road in California and New York, the two largest states in the nation.

“We are in this thing to the end,” Sanders said. “Why in God’s name would we not give the people of New York state and California the right to determine and voice their opinion as to who the Democratic nominee would be? I mean, it’s absurd. Of course, we would.”

He was also critical of Arizona election officials for the hours-long backups that resulted at some polling stations on Tuesday.

“Whatever the cause of that problem is, people in the United states of America should not have to wait five hours to vote,” Sanders said. “What happened yesterday in Arizona is a disgrace.”
====================
There comes a time in every Doctor Who nerd's life when he or she realises that all the money spent on merchandise and tat was wasted. How many Dalek and Tardis toys do you need sitting on your shelves, demanding to be dusted? Are you really going to read through all the scripts from the 2005 season, complete with RTD's annotations – especially when you have the DVDs too? And no, you are never going to fit into those 1970s Marks & Spencer Tom Baker Y-fronts again.

The problem is, all this stuff is almost entirely useless. You see it in the shop and your fiscal resistance wilts in the face of its shiny cuteness. Even Forbidden Planet's mark-up is no barrier. You know it's a waste of money, but you must have it.

Widdly-weee-widdly-weee-widdly-weee

Back home, there are doubts. A nagging voice – possibly your mother's, from the other side of your bedroom door – hints that your purchase may not have been a rational one. But the tat goes up onto the shelf nonetheless. Just up there, crammed in next to the Denys Fisher cyberman sculpted with a nose, to the left of the Dapol five-sided Tardis console...

Occasionally, though, you find something that seems like it might be useful. The Tardis Tuner from the late 1970s, for example, did at least make for a half-decent transistor radio because that's all it actually was.

'Yes, my replacement was pretty unpromising too'

In theory, the Wand Company's Sonic Screwdriver Universal Remote Control should fall into the same category.

According to the blurb on the box, the SSURC is "an advanced, gesture-based, infrared remote control... Using simple and intuitive movements you will be able to use the Sonic Screwdriver to control things around the home". Some of these words are coloured red, others orange. These may be the formal hues of the Prydonian Chapter of the Time Lords, but excessive emphasis does not inspire confidence.

The notion is that you'll soon be waving your Sonic Screwdriver around with gay abandon – I use the term specifically; this is Doctor Who fandom we're talking about, after all, and it is a very phallic instrument, dear – turning up the volume on your telly, switching on the Blu-ray player, disabling the iPod dock.

'Not even the Sonic Screwdriver can get me out of this one'

Of course, while the Doctor gets away with a little point and click, and perhaps a wee bit of telepathy, translating your average button-festooned remote into a series of gestures doesn't take you very far, so this gadget's shaft is touch sensitive. Combine upward, downward and side-to-side motions with some not-too-comfortable forward and backward jerks and four touch-sensitive areas and you have the basis to record a fair few of your average RC's functions. Three memory banks takes the range of signals the Sonic Screwdriver can send out to 39.

All well and good, but here's the thing: who on Earth has the time and inclination to set up 39 remote control codes? This is a common failing with many of the cheaper universal remotes out there: you have to program the buggers. It's bad enough when this requires entering dozens of four-digit codes each allowing the RC to call up a given device from a specified vendor from out of its memory banks.

'Er, never trust a man with dirty fingernails'

Here, though, you have to put the Screwdriver into program mode – "while the tip is glowing steadily", ahem – then perform each gesture before pointing your regular RC at the new one to allow the Gallifreyan gadget to read the IR code of the button you're pressing and assign it to the gesture.
====================
Two fifteen-year-old Native American women went into the hospital for tonsillectomies and came out with tubal ligations. Another Native American woman requested a “womb transplant,” only to reveal that she had been told that was an option after her uterus had been removed against her will. Cheyenne women had their Fallopian tubes severed, sometimes after being told that they could be “untied” again.

For many, America’s history of brutal experimentation on people of color is perhaps best summed up by the Tuskegee Experiment, in which doctors let African-American men suffer from syphilis over a period of 40 years. But another medical outrage is less well-known. Jane Lawrence documents the forced sterilization of thousands of Native American women by the Indian Health Service in the 1960s and 1970s—procedures thought to have been performed on one out of every four Native American women at the time, against their knowledge or consent.

Both the IHS and its dark history of forced sterilization were the result of longstanding, often ham-fisted attempts to address American Indians’ health care needs, writes Lawrence. Medical services were part of U.S. agreements with sovereign tribes from as early as 1832, when a treaty with the Ho-Chunk, then often called the Winnebago, included the services of a physician in exchange for land in what is now Wisconsin. With the arrival of the Progressive Era, health interventions became even more of a priority and the Department of the Interior and later the newly-formed Indian Health Service devoted resources to education and medical care for American Indians on reservations.

The results of forced sterilization performed by the Indian Health Service in the 60s and 70s are still felt within tribes today.

Though the IHS did deliver better health care, it operated under historical assumptions that native people and people of color were morally, mentally, and socially defective long after it was founded in 1955. “Some of [the IHS doctors] did not believe that American Indian and other minority women had the intelligence to use other methods of birth control effectively and that there were already too many minority individuals causing problems in the nation,” writes Lawrence.

Assisted by government assumptions that high Native American birth rates should be stemmed, and bolstered by lax law enforcement and inaccurate descriptions of medical procedures provided to women who thought they were being treated for things like appendicitis, a rash of forced sterilizations began in the 1960s. Even after legislation designed to protect women from forced sterilization was passed in 1974, the abusive sterilizations continued. Between 1970 and 1976 alone, between 25 and 50 percent of Native American women were sterilized.

The results are still felt within tribes today. Lawrence documents everything from divorce to depression, but writes that perhaps the most dramatic effect to Native Americans at large was tribes’ loss of political power due to their dwindling numbers. Combined with the forced assimilation of Native American children of earlier generations in compulsory boarding schools and modern-day failures of social services to place Native American children in foster care with Native parents in accordance to modern child welfare laws, the forced sterilization of Native American women is another page in the long book of abuse wrought upon Native peoples by the United States.

The experiences of Native women who were sterilized against their will are much like those of other women of color, like the African-American women who were sterilized under North Carolina laws until the early 1970s. But that doesn’t mean it’s any less outrageous—or that Native women are necessarily safer now. “Sterilization abuse has not been reported recently on the scale that occurred during the 1970s,” writes Lawrence, “ but the possibility still exists for it to occur.” It will take oversight and care by both community members and members of the public to preserve the health and welfare of Native communities in the future, but nothing can ever make up for the outrages perpetrated on them in the name of health.
====================
Michael Perrin during the British National Bodybuilding Federation championships (Picture: SWNS)

This IT worker proves that you can’t judge a book by its cover.

Michael Perrin, 22, spends his days offering technical support for John Lewis, but he shakes off the nerdy, string-armed stereotype in his spare time.

Underneath his clothes he has an impressive body that has seen him win a string of world titles for bodybuilding.

He hits the gym five nights a week and can lift more than 500lbs – the equivalent to a fully-grown polar bear.

Michael sticks to a strict dieting regime that sees him eat eight meals a day.

Michael said: ‘I’m just a normal guy with a hobby, really. Most IT workers like playing computer games in their spare time, while I love going to the gym and working out.

In his day job, Michael works in IT support for John Lewis (Picture: SWNS)

‘It’s quite funny to see colleague’s reaction when they call for IT support and I show up. I think people expect us all to look like the guys from The IT Crowd.

Advertisement

Advertisement

‘But you could say I am probably Britain’s toughest IT geek.’

Last year the muscle man, who only took up competition bodybuilding aged 19, won the Junior World Bodybuilding Championship, held in Miami, Florida, and later this month he is returning to America to try to defend his title.

Proud mum Karen, 49, said: ‘We’ve gone all over the world to support Michael.

MORE: Burly father changes from body builder into model

MORE: Muscle mum: Bodybuilder stays in shape using children as weights

‘I’m so proud of him. The fact he’s doing it naturally, with no performance-enhancing drugs, is all the more impressive.

‘Steroids ruin lives, and I’m glad my son only enters competitions which have strict drug tests.’

Tough Michael is a British Junior Powerlifting Champion, when he managed to deadlift an astonishing 507lbs (230kg).

He can also bench press 350lbs (158kg) and squat 430lbs (195kg) – despite weighing only 188lbs (13st 6lbs) at competition weight.

Michael eats an incredible eight meals a day (Picture: SWNS)
====================
Toyota's Scion brand, known for its basic vehicle designs that buyers can customize with style and performance options, recently offered a custom theme for jailbroken iPhones in order to promote the new 2011 Scion tC. Shortly after the campaign started, however, Toyota had its mobile advertising agency pull the theme and ads promoting it from the Cydia jailbreak store after Apple caught wind of the campaign. The move appears to be an effort to keep high-profile companies like Toyota using official channels, such as iAd, to reach iOS users.

Apple enthusiast site ModMyi.com had been working with Velti, a mobile advertising firm that was also contracted by Toyota to promote the Scion brand online. ModMyi.com founder Kyle Matthews said in a forum post that the two companies had discussions about building a custom iOS jailbreak theme to promote the new tC as far back as April of last year. (Themes are a collection of interface modifications for iOS, which can include custom icons, fonts, background images, and other stylistic changes.) Velti had apparently seen a connection between iPhone users who jailbreak their devices to install custom themes and car buyers that would be interested in a brand built around customizations, which led to the collaboration.

Matthews noted that the Scion tC theme was released in February this year, but ModMyi.com began running ads promoting the theme (available from the jailbreak Cydia Store) at the end of March. The ad campaign and a ModMyi.com article discussing the collaboration with Velti eventually caught the attention of the tech press, which led to Apple learning of the promotion.

Apple reportedly requested that Toyota remove the theme from the Cydia Store and stop the advertising campaign. Velti then contacted ModMyi.com Monday night to pull the theme and ads. Toyota gave in to Apple's request in order to "maintain their good relationship with Apple," a Velti representative told Matthews.

It's hard to say what particular relationship Toyota has with Apple, and company representatives did not respond to our request for comment as of publication time. Neither Toyota nor Scion appear to be running iAd campaigns at this time, but both brands do offer iPod integration on some car models. Whatever the case, Apple has effectively put a stop to Toyota marketing directly to jailbreakers.

Matthews suggested that Apple's request is a direct attack on the jailbreak scene. It's no secret that Apple wishes jailbreaking didn't exist; the company tried unsuccessfully to have jailbreaking ruled illegal and continually plugs security exploits that make the practice possible. At one point, Apple even tired implementing a jailbreak detection API. However, it's just as likely that Apple is trying to keep its partners using official channels, such as Apple's own iAd mobile advertising service. Letting a partner like Toyota target jailbreakers directly could be seen as an implicit approval of such practices, not to mention that Apple doesn't get a cut from ad campaigns served over non-iAd channels.
====================
GETTY Northern Ireland minister Theresa Villiers has called the EU 'unreformable'

Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers launched the scathing attack during a Vote Leave campaign event in Glasgow yesterday. The former Tory MEP branded Brussels as “unreformable” and the UK joining up to the bureaucratic union in the 1970s was an “admission of defeat”.

GETTY Villiers, second from left, and fellow top Tory Eurosceptics

She said: "The six years I spent in Brussels as an MEP...those six years convinced me of one very clear thing - that the European Union is unreformable. "It is, and always has been and always will be, primarily a political project.

GETTY A UK flag in the European Parliament chambers

"It is all about creating a country called Europe. However hard we in this country work, whatever we do, whatever we say, we can never change that. "Joining the EU in the 70s was in many ways an admission of defeat based on the perception that Britain was destined for chronic decline." She added: "We can stand on our own two feet - it is time to become a self-governing democracy once again."

New EU flags Fri, April 1, 2016 EU chiefs are drawing up secret plans ordering member nations to incorporate the ‘ring of stars’ emblem of the Council of Europe into their flags. Play slideshow European Union 1 of 28 UK
====================
Gwent police condemned by IPCC for failing to submit clear report of incident and not referencing presence of loaded firearm

Police marksman keeps job after having sex on duty with gun around ankles

A police marksman who had sex on duty with a woman while his loaded gun was in a holster around his ankles has been allowed to keep his job, it has emerged.

The police watchdog condemned Gwent police's handling of the case, saying it had omitted key details in a report.

PC Shaun Jenkins was originally dismissed from the force over the incident in 2010 but reinstated on appeal.

He used a police armed response vehicle to get a lift to the house where the woman was, and was inside for between 30 to 40 minutes during which time he said he continued to monitor the police radio.

Jenkins is now a neighbourhood beat officer, Gwent police said, having been removed from firearms duties after the incident was reported by the woman's husband.

The Independent Police Complaints Commission said on Monday that the way Gwent police had handled the matter brought the police discipline system into disrepute.

The incident happened in Caerphilly in April 2010. Jenkins was on patrol in an armed response vehicle when he told his colleague, also in the car, he needed to visit a house that he owned, and which he had rented out to the woman and her husband.

It was there the woman, who has not been named, and PC Jenkins had consensual sex, with his gun attached to his trousers, which were down around his ankles.

After the woman's husband found out and complained to police, the Gwent force sent a report to the IPCC that redacted key details, such as the fact PC Jenkins had his weapon on him.

The IPCC report said: "It was further established at this time that the investigating officer's report provided to the complainant and the IPCC had been redacted to remove the reference to a firearm. There was no evidence provided to the IPCC that the report had been redacted to remove this information."

The document recounting the incident, which Jenkins submitted, should have read: "On arrival at the address he describes that himself and (redacted) engaged in sexual activity. He states that he took off his body armour, leaving his T-shirt, and then took down his trousers to his ankles in order to engage in sexual activity.

"He confirmed that his sidearm was still attached to his trousers at the time, in its holster, and that it was loaded. Following intercourse he again asked PC Jones to give (redacted) a lift in the ARV to a location in the (redacted) area.

PC Jenkins confirmed that he was still monitoring his radio during his time in the property."

Jenkins was dismissed in January 2011 but a police appeal panel gave him his job back in April 2012.

IPCC commissioner for Wales Tom Davies criticised the panel: "The finding of the police appeals panel that the gun was never out of PC Jenkins' direct and immediate control because it was in a holster, attached to his trousers, which were attached to him, albeit around his ankles, is surprising.

"I am also bemused by the panel's conclusion that his conduct did not significantly downgrade the protection to the public because there was nothing to suggest he could not have been back in the police vehicle within a minute or two. These findings can only undermine public confidence in the credibility of the police discipline system.

"Any officer having sex on duty is unacceptable behaviour that falls well below what is expected of all police officers. Those who carry firearms are rightly subject to the highest standards of training, procedures and discipline.

"The manner in which this complaint was originally handled by Gwent police is unacceptable and their attempts to 'fast-track' the complaint and deal with it outside the formal regulations are not good enough."

The IPCC said that Supt Paul Griffiths, head of Gwent's professional standards department when the case was originally dealt with, had since been moved from that role.

In a statement Gwent police said: "Gwent police notes and fully accepts the findings of the IPCC report which was critical of the force's handling of a complaint against a serving officer.

"Our complaints handling processes have been reviewed and improved as part of our on-going efforts to ensure we provide the best possible service to the public."
====================
On Jan. 25, 2017, ABC News "World News Tonight" anchor David Muir interviewed President Donald Trump in the White House.

President Donald Trump defended his plan to ban immigrants from terror-prone countries by arguing that the FBI’s terror investigations are at an all-time high due to policies of the previous administration.

"President Obama and Hillary Clinton have, and (former Secretary of State John) Kerry have allowed tens of thousands of people into our country," Trump said on ABC News Jan. 25. "The FBI is now investigating more people than ever before having to do with terror. And it's from the group of people that came in. So look, look, our country has a lot of problems. Believe me. I know what the problems are even better than you do. They're deep problems, they're serious problems. We don't need more."

We couldn’t independently verify the number of current FBI investigations and compare that to the past, and Trump put no timeframe on his historical comparison. We decided not to put Trump’s claim on the Truth-O-Meter, but we will lay out the evidence we found from experts. A spokesman for Trump did not provide any information to back up the claim by deadline.

Experts told us that the number of investigations alone doesn’t provide a complete picture about the scope of terrorism in the United States.

"Just because someone is being investigated for terrorism does not mean that the terrorism threat is up," said Laura Dugan, a University of Maryland professor of criminology and criminal justice. "It just means that the FBI is increasing investigations."

FBI investigated about 1,000 cases last year

A spokesman for the FBI told us that the agency doesn’t release information about the number of terrorist investigations under way, but pointed to statements by director James Comey that the FBI has investigations in all 50 states.

Multiple news reports paraphrased Comey as telling reporters at a May 11, 2016, news conference that the FBI has investigated about 1,000 cases — up from 900 the year before — to determine if a suspect is consuming terrorist propaganda, or acting on it. Trump cited the 1,000-case figure on Fox News on Jan. 26, a day after his ABC interview.

Comey’s comments coincided with the opening of a trial in Minneapolis of three Somali-Americans accused of plotting to help the Islamic State.

The New York Times wrote in September 2016 that in recent years the FBI has "averaged 10,000 assessments annually, and 7,000 to 10,000 preliminary or full investigations involving international terrorism. In addition, the FBI receives tens of thousands of terrorism tips."

We sought data on charges or convictions from the U.S. Justice Department but did not get a response.

Databases show many terrorists in the United States are Americans

Trump suggested that the people suspected of being terrorists are immigrants or refugees brought in under the Obama administration’s policies. His team did not present evidence backing up that assertion, and checking out who is under FBI investigation is, of course, difficult.

Data suggests that many of these cases were committed by citizens or legal residents. It is tricky to quantify what percent of terrorists are immigrants vs. Americans because the definitions of terrorism vary -- even among federal agencies. Right-wing terrorism can be motivated by attacks on the American political system, which is different from terrorism linked to al-Qaida.

While there have been high-profile incidents involving legal immigrants, databases of terrorist acts show many were homegrown extremists.

According to the New America Foundation, about 81 percent of individuals accused of jihadist terrorism crimes since Sept. 11 are citizens or legal residents and about 48 percent were born with U.S. citizenship.

In terms of overall figures, the foundation reported that 2015 was the peak year with 79 cases of people charged with jihadist terrorism related crimes or having died before a charge. That number dropped to 43 in 2016, although that number could grow if additional cases are unsealed, said David Sterman, New America policy analyst.

The foundation draws from court records, government press releases, and news reports. The New America database includes cases that involve a terrorism charge or could be considered terrorism even if the charge is something else, for example the Fort Hood case where the charges are murder.

A New York Times analysis in 2015 found that half of the jihadist attacks since 2001 were committed by men born in the United States. Many others were naturalized citizens.

Other databases show some information related to tracking terrorism but didn’t reflect the full number of FBI investigations.

George Washington University collects data on the number of individuals charged with offenses related to the Islamic State. There were 61 individuals in 2015 and 33 individuals in 2016 charged with ISIS-related activity. The university reported that the vast majority were Americans.

Numbers don’t tell the full story

The number of cases can rise if the FBI decides to make suspected terrorists more of a priority — but that doesn’t necessarily mean there is more terrorism. Also, not all terrorism cases carry the same level of threat. A charge against someone for material support is not the same as charging someone accused of carrying out an attack. Also, only some investigations lead to actual charges and then convictions.

American University professor Tricia Bacon, who worked in counterrorism for the State Department from 2003-13, said that only FBI headquarters could credibly measure whether the FBI is investigating more people than ever before for terrorism and why.

John Mueller, an adjunct political science professor at Ohio State University and senior fellow at the libertarian Cato Institute, said that the FBI has followed up on millions of terrorism leads since Sept. 11, 2001.

"Although scarcely any develop into anything, the FBI continues and is probably getting more efficient at it, made more so by the fact that so many would-be terrorists announce their intentions (or fantasies) on Facebook and Twitter," he said.

Max Abrahms, assistant professor of political science at Northeastern University, said he wouldn’t be surprised if the number of people under investigation by the FBI for terrorism is unprecedented. However, he noted some problems with attempting to ban people from certain countries.

"No nation has a monopoly on terrorists," he said. "And no nation is exempt from producing them. Furthermore, the ban does not affect domestic terrorism, which is a growing concern, by not only Islamists, but also right-wing extremists."

Our conclusions

Trump said "The FBI is now investigating more people than ever before having to do with terror."

We did not find any definitive data to show whether the FBI is currently investigating more people for terrorism than any point in the past. Comey said in May that the FBI has investigated about 1,000 cases -- up from 900 a year or so ago.

The New America Foundation reported that 2015 was the peak year for cases of people charged with jihadist terrorism related crimes or having died before a charge but being credibly reported to have engaged in jihadist terrorism.

However, experts told us that the numbers alone don’t tell the full story because it doesn’t show how many result in actual convictions and not all cases have the same level of seriousness.

"Large numbers of investigations or prosecutions are a worrisome indicator of threat, but there are other indicators including the sophistication of plots, the direction of the trend line in cases, and whether plots are being detected early or late in the plotting process that must also be considered," Sterman said.
====================
“I think everybody understands how the insurance system works,” White House spokesman Jay Carney declared on Tuesday, without apparent irony.

A man holds a sign at the Tea Party Patriots ‘Exempt America from Obamacare’ rally on the west lawn of the Capitol on Sept. 10. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)

Actually, the public is really confused about the insurance system and what President Obama is trying to do to it. That’s partially — though far from entirely — the president’s fault. Nevertheless, next year’s may well be the third election in a row in which Americans will vote on Obamacare without really getting Obamacare.

About half to two thirds of people in recent polls admit to at least partially misunderstanding the reform. Other surveys show that support for reform changes when pollsters call it “the Affordable Care Act” than when they use the term “Obamacare.” The Post’s latest poll on the health-care law didn’t probe either of those matters, but widespread confusion about the law visible in the answers to the questions our pollsters did pose. Number after number in the poll should be flipped on its head.

The poll, for example, found that 65 percent of Americans oppose the law’s mandate that all individuals obtain insurance, whereas 58 percent favor its mandate that all medium and large employers offer coverage to their workers. These figures suggest that lots of people don’t object to government health-insurance mandates, but they think it should be up to employers to extend coverage to more people.

In reality, nearly all major employers already offer coverage, and the few who don’t would suppress wages and hiring if they have to provide insurance. It wouldn’t be free for those getting insurance. Even that, though, wouldn’t help the self-employed, the under-employed, the unemployed, or those who work for very small businesses. The individual mandate, not the employer provision, is the key to covering them, insisting that they pay what they can into a more rational system and enabling them to get quality, affordable health insurance in return.

The most striking number in the Post poll, though, is that 56 percent of Americans believe that the cancellation letters that insurance companies have been sending to some of their customers over the last several weeks aren’t “a normal startup problem with the new system,” but are rather “a sign of mismanagement of the new health-care law.” In fact, the law and the regulations that followed it have been clear for some time; many people would not be able to keep health-care plans that did not meet certain “essential benefits.” They would have to move onto better plans, many with government help. Just like the individual mandate, this transition is an important part of organizing the new health-care market for the people the employer-based system leaves out.

Obama bears a lot of blame for the confusion on the recent cancellations. He set expectations when he promised that Americans could keep their health-care plans. His promise didn’t bear out, which looks like incompetence, dishonesty or both. High complexity was also the byproduct of Democrats’ choice to keep most of the existing system intact and build around it.

But health-care reform was always going to be complicated — and easy for uncomplicated ideologues to denounce. Republican demagoguery — from the days of “death panels” to the current frenzy over cancellation letters — has done much more to confound public understanding of the Affordable Care Act, not to mention the law’s implementation.

Next year, voters should judge the law based on how many more people ultimately get affordable health-care coverage, and at what cost to taxpayers. Right now, many appear to be judging the law based on misunderstandings and warped representations.

Follow Stephen Stromberg on Twitter: @strombergsteve
====================
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

BELLINGHAM, Wash. — Whatcom County still hasn't heard back after asking then-presidential candidate Donald Trump to reimburse the county for security costs for a rally last year.

The Bellingham Herald reports that County Council asked the Trump campaign in September to reimburse the county for $53,000 for security-related costs for a May 7, 2016 Trump rally in Lynden.

Jennifer Schneider, the council's confidential clerk, says they haven't heard back. She says the council does not plan to pursue the reimbursement any further.

A tally by the county and The Bellingham Herald shows that law enforcement around the region racked up nearly $307,000 in expenses to help with event security at the rally that drew thousands of supporters and hundreds of protesters.

Seeking reimbursement is not an uncommon practice for cities. News reports last year show the Trump campaign had received multiple security-related bills from places he's held rallies this year.
====================
Charges are believed to allege that he shot his gun out of car sunroof and accidentally fired friend's gun at restaurant

Oscar Pistorius has been indicted on two new gun-related charges, which are believed to allege that he recklessly shot his gun out of the open sunroof of a car last year and fired someone else's handgun at a restaurant weeks before he killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.

The double-amputee Olympian has already been indicted on a main charge of murder for Steenkamp's shooting in February and a charge of illegal possession of ammunition in his Pretoria home.

It is likely he will face all four charges at his trial starting in March, although his lawyers can argue against the new charges being added to his current indictment as the offences are alleged to have taken place in Johannesburg, which falls under a different court jurisdiction.

South Africa's national prosecution spokesman, Nathi Mncube, declined to give the exact details of the new charges, saying only that they "relate to the contravention of the firearms act".

Mncube said there had been no indication from Pistorius's lawyers as to whether they would seek to keep the cases separate. South Africa's director of public prosecutions granted permission to add the new charges last month.

According to reports in South Africa, Pistorius is alleged to have fired his own licensed 9mm handgun – the gun used to kill Steenkamp – out of the open sunroof of a car in Johannesburg while travelling with friends last year.

In January, weeks before Steenkamp's shooting death, Pistorius is alleged to have accidentally shot a friend's gun under the table at a Johannesburg restaurant, apparently while admiring it. For both alleged offences he could be charged with public endangerment and damage to property.

He already faces a possible life sentence with a minimum of 25 years in prison if convicted of the premeditated murder of Steenkamp. Pistorius says he shot her by mistake thinking she was a dangerous intruder in his house.
====================
Report from the session on ’world perspectives’ which took place at the recent International Executive Committee (IEC) of the CWI

“The global elite is in fear of an uprising of the masses”. This quote from the German newspaper Die Welt was taken from a survey of 1,500 managers and politicians for next month’s World Economic Forum in Davos. It was mentioned by Aron Amm from Germany in his contribution to the discussion on the ‘World Economy and Inter-Imperialist Relations’ at the recent International Executive Committee (IEC) meeting of the Committee for a Workers’ International (CWI). It shows that the “global elite” – the capitalists and their allies – are trembling at the effects austerity and capitalism generally are having on the vast majority of the world’s population. They fear social explosions internationally which will challenge their rule and bring the ideas of socialism to billions on the planet.

Peter Taaffe introduced the discussion by referring to the social explosions already occurring. This was the most important feature of the last year; the revolt of the working-class and poor masses in a number of countries. As was pointed out at our last IEC, mass movements had been prominent features of politics in Europe and the Middle East, and were joined in 2013 by the mass revolts in Brazil and Latin America in general, Turkey and elsewhere.

Also, the tremendous victory of Kshama Sawant and Socialist Alternative in Seattle has put the US also in the front rank of countries where support for socialism could grow rapidly. US workers and youth are more open to the ideas of socialism, which appears fresh because the working class and youth there have not gone through the same disappointing experiences as the European working class, for instance, that have had decades of experience of social democracy and Stalinism in action.

The starting point, said Peter, is that capitalism worldwide is in a gigantic mess, particularly in the economic sphere. It is difficult to see how the capitalists can extricate themselves from this dire situation. They can come up with short-term palliatives, but none of their solutions can guarantee long-term growth.

It is not just an economic crisis, but social, environmental (as seen by the effects of the recent typhoon in Philippines) and also what the capitalists call a ‘crisis of governance’: an inability to manage their system politically and prevent political crisis. In such an epoch, if changing society is not posed in a situation, the questions of war or even civil war will come to the fore.

In the first years of this century, capitalist globalisation was pursued relentlessly throughout the whole of the globe, with the aim of spreading the alleged advantages of capitalism: growth, higher living standards and a better quality of life. In the process, this would ideologically cement capitalism as the only way forward. However, events since the financial crisis and economic crash of 2008-09 have instilled deep gloom in the ideologists of capitalism.

This lack of confidence amongst their public representatives has been noted and reflected in different ways. There is turmoil amongst economic students worldwide who are revolting against the teaching of ‘free-market’ economics and want alternatives, such as the ideas of Keynes and, significantly, Karl Marx to be put onto the syllabus. Students in Manchester have established a ‘Post-Crash Economics’ group.

In Switzerland, a referendum was called demanding the limitation of salaries of top business executives to no more than 12 times the wages of their lowest-paid employees. This initiative was defeated but will be taken up elsewhere.

The economic background is of intractable economic crisis in all the main regions of the world, both in the advanced industrial countries – Europe, the US and Japan – and, increasingly in the so-called emerging markets and, significantly, Eastern Europe. The capitalists pretended that ‘blooming landscapes’ would transform the lives of people there. Now, even the gangster capitalists and representatives grudgingly admit Eastern Europe “will never catch up with the advanced industrial countries of Western Europe”.

Six years into this devastating economic crisis, the ‘theoreticians’ of capitalism are still thrashing about trying to find a solution. There is a widespread acceptance a full recovery will not take place and the world economy has still not returned to its pre- crisis level. Any growth that occurs will be anaemic and will not substantially eat into the structural unemployment that besets many countries. There will certainly not be enough growth to overcome the problems of austerity. Instead, there has been a remorseless growth of poverty like in the Great Depression of the 1930s.

One wing of the capitalists – perhaps the majority – has concluded it is deflation and lack of demand, that poses the biggest threat to Europe and US, just as it did for Japan in its ‘two lost decades’. This wing has come to same conclusion as Marxists, but from the opposite class standpoint. The main problem confronting capitalism is not the drop in profits but the colossal surplus with nowhere to go. Martin Wolf summed this up in the Financial Times: “The world economy has been generating more savings than businesses wish to use, even at very low interest rates.”

This is what they themselves call a “savings glut”. Yet there has been a drop in investment in new plant and machinery even in this so-called recovery. The drop in productivity is now ‘structural’ which is jamming the system.

Recently, the Economist magazine baldly warned of “the perils of falling inflation”. This is ironic to those who remember the hysterical denunciation in the 1970s of what Leon Trotsky called the ‘syphilis’ of inflation. This was used to attack the wages of working class. Now the capitalists are desperately trying to break out of this dead zone of zombie banks in a zombie economy. Without movement on the economy, the capitalists are absolutely certain to face revolts of the working class.

One wing of the capitalists advocates stimulus programmes, a continuation of quantitative easing, even at a cost of piling up the deficits. This is not classical Keynesianism – increasing the wages of the working class and therefore demand – but it suits big business, or to be more exact, its most parasitic section, the lords of finance.

‘Ultra-expansionary monetary policies’ have benefited speculation and shored up the emerging markets for as time, but it is not investment in the ‘real’ economy. This was amplified by Per-Åke Westerlund from Sweden who pointed to some economists claiming they “need bubbles”. Quantitative Easing has increased share prices and reduced the value of dollar but problems are building up which could have further devastating consequences for the world economy.

Peter commented on capitalist representatives who have called parts of the banking system ‘socially useless’. Others, like Larry Summers – past head of the US Treasury – have advocated concentration on infrastructure spending, particularly through state-generated growth in clean, green technology.

This would be underwritten by the newly acquired advantage of power of the US through increased shale production of oil and gas, which some reports say will make the US self-sufficient in energy by 2035. This, big business hopes, will give a certain safeguard against upheavals in the Middle East and could be used as a counterweight in relation to its rivals, including China and Russia. But for the moment, the oil of the Middle East, particularly of Saudi Arabia, is still of key geopolitical importance to the US. Neither does it guarantee structural growth in the economy in the US or worldwide. For technology to be harnessed fully, new fields of investment, a higher rate of profit and spiralling upwards of the economy are needed.

In general, the economic landscape will be a continuation of the present situation; a perpetuation of the depressionary economic conditions experienced since 2007-08. Even limited growth would strengthen the working class and give confidence to encourage and win strikes and struggles. A continuation of the current economic conditions, given the accumulation of colossal anger of the masses, and no outlet through mass parties to sufficiently express rage can and will result in unprecedented social explosions along the lines of Brazil, Turkey and Egypt.

The ‘Arab Spring’ gave a huge boost to the idea of revolution in general, but particularly underlined the critical role of masses in the urban areas. It was this that evoked the support and enthusiasm of the masses worldwide. The Egyptian revolution gave strength to the idea of the independent role of the masses to change their conditions.

The theocratic regimes in the region, as well as imperialism, particularly US imperialism, were initially helpless to intervene. However, they were given an inroad by events in Libya, Bahrain and now Syria. In all of these uprisings, there were elements of revolution at first but counterrevolution intervened and this has skewed the movements. This reaction has included attacks on women’s rights, including in Egypt, although women themselves are fighting back.

Egypt is the key country, alongside Israel, in region. There has undoubtedly been a big element of the counterrevolution since the military took power in July but this was not clear to the masses initially. Some believed that a ‘strong leader’ like General Sisi, head of the government, was necessary to avoid chaos and cuts in living standards. His figure has been built up almost to the same proportions as the late President Nasser in the 1950s and 1960s. The latest laws attacking democratic rights are a warning that the working class faces a race against time to create independent organisations. Independent trade unions have recruited 3 million workers since January 2011 but at same time, some of their leaders have been drawn into the regime.

In Tunisia, there is an independent trade union with a history and the UGTT is capable, with correct leadership, of taking power, even before creating a party.

The equally intractable and devastating wars in this current epoch are symbolised by Iraq and Afghanistan, and the spread of its poison to Syria, in particular and the whole of the Middle East. Syria has already been described as “Afghanistan on the Mediterranean”. Before the recent Geneva negotiations over Iran, there loomed the nightmare of sectarian war and the biggest clash between Shia and Sunni Muslims for 1400 years. An arc of sectarian strife stretches from Pakistan through Iraq, Lebanon and Syria to Saudi Arabia. The rest of the Middle East, and even Europe (from where ‘jihadis’ have travelled to Syria), would not escape the devastating fallout. Not least is the fear of a new Middle East war with a pre-emptive strike on Iran by Israel. Such an outcome could skew the prospects for workers’ struggle.

The CWI hopes events will not develop in this way but this underlines the urgency for new mass parties with farsighted leaderships that can lead the working class in a united movement to avoid this disaster and prepare the way for seizing power. The working class does not have time if it is to avoid being dragged into the abyss.

The initial agreement over Iran, while not conclusive, is in some respects a ‘game changer’ and could alter perspectives for Middle East. Any subsequent agreement will only be possible because it benefits the main players – the US and Iran – on political, economic and strategic grounds. Judy Beishon from England and Wales pointed to the hatred and mass opposition to US policies in region. The US has no existential threat from Iran whereas Israel has but the US sees a nuclear Iran as a threat to US interests in region.

In Syria, the majority reject both the Assad regime and opposition, which is increasingly under the sway of jihadi groups. The defeat of the campaign to bomb Syria was a turning point. Mass opposition, in the US and Britain in particular, forced the main players to explore the possibility of discussions. Nihat from Turkey reported on the devastating effects of the civil war in the region. Turkey was trying to implement neo-imperial policy and develop a regional role, while improving its relations with the Kurds but this role is receding.

Comrades from Israel reported on the growing anger of Palestinians in the face of increasing colonisation, annexation and attacks with some returning to armed struggle rhetoric. The last chance for a two-state solution may be near. Israeli workers were also becoming angry at austerity policies.

World relations are in a state of flux. The US, said Peter, has been weakened by the recent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and there is no appetite for further military adventures. Any further interventions could have a more military police character. This reflects the more multipolar world in which China is beginning to compete with the US, while the smaller powers play a lesser role. Nevertheless, the US cannot retreat into splendid isolation. It is still attempting to affect the outcome of events in its favour through ‘soft power’ and it still has the edge in technology and the productivity of labour.

Russia asserts itself, particularly in its own region, but mainly plays the role of intermediary between the two remaining superpowers, China and US. Russia has tried to reassert its claims to the ‘near abroad’ and Ukraine was brought to heel through economic pressure but this has prompted the huge demonstrations demanding Ukraine sign an economic pact with the EU instead of Russia!

Peter also outlined the situation in Asia, and there was some discussion on perspectives, particularly on China and the country’s relations with its neighbours in South-East and East Asia. He also made comments on South Asia, particularly the difficult situation facing the working class and the CWI in countries such as Sri Lanka and Pakistan.

The recent plenum of the Chinese Communist Party gave some indication of where China may be heading. Comrades from Asia reported that the outcome was ‘more market, more dictatorship’ and confirmed a major shift of power with the rise of President Xi Jinping as the new strongman Peter said this may be possible but the Chinese leadership is still cautious of how far they can go and is haunted by collapse of Soviet Union.

China’s developing world power has come about through its rising economic power, with some economists predicting that, in gross terms at least, it could be the world’s biggest economy as early as 2020. This process could be cut across by the movement of the Chinese working class but the position of the US as the major world power is coming to an end. Robert Bechert, in his reply, pointed to the strikes in China, the relocation of some production away from China due to increased wages and transportation costs and its foreign reserves of $3.6tr. There were different elements to how China could develop.

Peter commented that if China’s economic progress continues, this will be reflected in China’s military, diplomatic and political power. This is shown in the recent clashes in Asia over the disputed islands in the seas around China. The right-wing government in Japan has been keen to reassert its national interests in the region and backed by US, which is seeking to counter China in Asia; the Pacific region is its main interest not the Atlantic., said this showed the need to develop a programme for the working class with sensitivity to the national question but opposed to chauvinism

Comrades also mentioned the slowing of Australia’s commodity boom as China’s economy slows. There was a two-speed economy in Australia, with manufacturing in Eastern Australia stagnating. Australia will not escape from a more dangerous situation in Asia, even under its new right-wing government.

The drop in world trade has indicated the scale of crisis. There are discussions aimed at a new trade agreement between Europe and the US, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). There are also discussions on a Pacific agreement (Trans-Pacific Partnership – TPP). Since the IEC, the World Trade Organisation has agreed a new trade deal but this is more limited than what was hoped for. On paper, trade agreements circumvent national governments, but tensions both between and within trading blocs are slowing moves towards treaties. Any agreements will try to strengthen neoliberal policies and enshrine the ‘race to the bottom’, as several comrades mentioned.

Peter raised events in Africa and Latin America, which had separate sessions, where politics is volatile on both continents and workers can be won to genuine Marxist ideas. The working class in South Africa have entered politics following the miners’ strikes and the formation of the Workers and Socialist Party (WASP). Since the discussion, Mandela has passed away and the current ANC leaders are being compared very unfavourably to him. This will break some of the loyalties of workers to the ANC since apartheid was removed.

Our victory in Seattle will have a big effect internationally but the masses need time and experience to arrive at roundabouts revolutionary conclusions. There was some discussion from US comrades on the US labour movement; traditional unions are stagnating but organisations taking up the $15 an hour campaign are finding an echo for the action they are organising.

Peter said that, economically, conditions are similar to the 1930s but at the moment, consciousness of the working class lags far behind what is required, even in those countries where the crisis of is at its most extreme (Greece and southern Europe). The effects of austerity are clear in Europe as the recent Red Cross report shows (for more on Europe, see the separate report).There is not a clearly worked out the idea of how to change society and how to construct the socialist alternative. This will ensure the drawn-out character of revolution. Yet this is one of the most disturbed periods in human history on all fronts: economic, political, environmental and military.

Peter concluded that the capitalists cannot overcome the problems of private ownership and national divisions in the long term. We said the nation state would savagely reassert states itself in this crisis and it has done internationally including in Europe. In fact, internationally new walls and barriers are going up everywhere and total 6,000 miles around the world.

The great potential for the CWI is shown by events Brazil, South Africa and the USA, which show that small forces can have a colossal effect out of proportion to their size. In the next period, big opportunities will open up for the working class to move onto the scene of history and the CWI will be present in those movements. An exciting new period is opening up and the CWI will go forward if it has clear perspectives and takes bold action.
====================
Del Rey City Soccer Club (DRCSC) and TheCup.us have formed a partnership in their common goal to create public awareness and interest the Lamar Hunt US Open Cup. As part of the partnership, DRCSC also unveiled their new custom design jerseys, made by Admiral Sports, which brandish the logo of TheCup.us across the front chest.

A stauch supporter and true believer in American soccer, Del Rey City SC owner, Brian Perez, thinks promotion of the US Open Cup might just be the best way to grow interest in soccer across the country. “The US Open Cup brings small, local clubs into a national tournament with top professional teams” he said. “Including local teams, and hence their communities, in this kind of tournament will capture their interest.”

“The immediate effort,” he continued, “is to not only increase awareness of the tournament, but to find an easy way for people to learn about and follow it. TheCup.us is exactly that so Del Rey City wants to help promote it.”

Run by senior editor, Josh Hakala, TheCup.us is an authoritative news media site covering the Lamar Hunt US Open Cup in great depth, and the only media outlet to have been doing so since 2003. Hakala is a member of the North American Soccer Reporters (NASR) and the National Premier Soccer League recently said Hakala “is considered to be the country’s foremost expert on the US Open Cup” in an interview with the Michigan native posted on their website.

What is DRCSC looking to get in promoting TheCup.us? “Exposure for our players. At the moment we have a couple sensational players, 18-year-olds, who need to be seen.”

Appropriately, Del Rey City expects to debut their new jerseys when they face the LA Wolves in an 2016 US Open Cup qualifying match on Saturday, Oct. 24. The two United Premier Soccer League (UPSL) teams will play one another at the Toyota Sports Complex in Torrance, Calif. Kickoff is scheduled for 8 p.m. Pacific Time.

For more information about Del Rey City’s team and the new jersey can be found on their official website.
====================
In this May 2003 file photo, an army helicopter flies over the Siachen Glacier on Pakistan-India border. An avalanche smashed into a Pakistani army base on the Himalayan glacier close to India on Saturday, burying around 100 soldiers. (AP/AP)

A huge avalanche buried more than 120 soldiers at a major Pakistani army base on a Himalayan glacier close to India on Saturday, military officials said. Prospects for finding survivors seemed slim, given the fiercely inhospitable climate and dangerous terrain.

“We haven’t really been able to recover anyone dead or alive so far,” Major Gen. Athar Abbas, a military spokesman in Islamabad, said more than 12 hours after the avalanche, at the entry to the Siachen Glacier in the northern reaches of the disputed Kashmir region.

At the time of the disaster, the troops were sleeping in a headquarters building now covered with 80 feet of snow, the army said. The military deployed tracking dogs, helicopters and snowmobiles in its search but to little effect, state television reported. A total of 135 people were confirmed missing — 124 troops and 11 civilians.

The base at Gayari, where the avalanche hit, sits at about 15,000 feet, near a border where thousands of Pakistani and Indian troops stand guard across a no man’s land at elevations up to 22,000 feet. The Siachen Glacier often is called the highest battlefield on Earth.

More Pakistani troops have died there because of harsh weather than in combat. Soldiers endure winter temperatures as low as 90 degrees Fahrenheit below zero.

India and Pakistan have fought intermittently at Siachen since 1984, but a cease-fire went into effect in 2003. Before that, more than 2,000 Pakistani and Indian troops died in the mountainous terrain, mostly because of avalanches, frostbite and other weather hazards.

Together, the nuclear-armed nations have about 150 manned outposts along the glacier.

A former Pakistani Army brigadier general, Muhammad Saad, said two Pakistani brigades of three battalions each are stationed in the region. Troop strengths have varied, but each brigade, with support staff, can number up to 3,000 troops.

Previous causes of avalanches, Saad said, include glacial melt and the loud retorts caused by cross-border exchanges of gunfire.

Officials estimate that the cost of maintaining the outposts is $200 million for Pakistan and $300 million for India. The nations have gone to war twice over Kashmir, a source of dispute since the 1947 partition of India.

Special correspondent Haq Nawaz Khan in Peshawar contributed to this report.
====================
Lions once hunted mammoths in Canada. Dire wolves stalked mastodon in Germany. And as recently as 1,300 years ago, a coyote-sized cat called the Eurasian lynx brought down deer in Great Britain. But the lynx, and all those other big predators, got out-hunted—and in some cases hunted out—by an even better predator: humans.

Now, though, the lynx are coming back. Not on their own, of course. If all goes according to plan, British and Scottish conservationists say that by the end of 2015 they'll put the lynx back where it belongs, at the center of the British isle's food web. "At the moment, Great Britain's forest ecosystems are broken," says Paul O'Donoghue, the lead ecologist with Lynx UK Trust, the group in charge the effort. "The lynx is the best tool to add some balance to the forest ecosystem." To do that, O'Donoghue's team will undertake a process called "rewinding." They'll find lynx in other parts of the world, make sure they're OK to move, and bring them to their new homes. It's difficult and controversial, but if researchers are right, it's also fantastically important.

Apex predators do a lot to keep an ecosystem together. For one, they keep lower predators and herbivores in check, so they don't overbreed and decimate plant life...which in turn cascades into human civilizations. Ecologists have been able to trace events—through sometimes complicated linkages—like Lyme disease outbreaks, agriculture pest flare-ups, and even increased flooding to the absence of apex predators.

Bring those predators back, though, and an ecosystem can swing back to health. At least, that's the idea.

The Eurasian lynx still roams wild in most of Europe, and all the way across Russia. O'Donoghue's cats will come from eastern Europe. "These are the exact same species that used to live in the UK," he says. This is the first order of business when rewilding: making sure that the predator is a good fit in its once and future home. This isn't just to prevent obvious blunders—you wouldn't put modern, African lions into the Canadian tundra. "We have to make sure we're returning an animal to its historic natural range, some place where it makes sense ecologically," says William Ripple, an ecologist at Oregon State University whose expertise was crucial in the 1990s reintroduction of wolves back into Yellowstone.

Lynx UK Trust is eyeing three privately-owned, intact, and relatively underdeveloped forests for rewilding—two in England, one in Scotland. Finding the right habitat isn't just a matter of grabbing up a bunch of green acreage. The quality of the forest matters. This means doing detailed analyses, not just mapping the forest's extent, but also calculating the value of what's available. For example, you could have a millions of available acres, but they'd be completely useless in a strip a hundred yards wide. Likewise, lynx won't do well in a forest that is fragmented by housing developments, farmland, or roads.

Next comes food. "We’ve picked areas that have particularly high deer densities and where the lynx will have high impact," says O'Donoghue. Great Britain is plump with prey, but after an initial chow-down (hopefully) brings the herds down to manageable numbers, will the deer continue to be a sustainable food source for the lynx? It's possible they won't. And if newly reintroduced lynx go hunting for other food, farmers and livestock owners are concerned they'll choose other local fare—a flock of sheep, perhaps. Ranchers in the American West blame grey wolves, originally released in Yellowstone, for killing cattle—though their culpability is hard to prove. Not many people catch a wolf in the act, and with only a mangled carcass as evidence it's hard to tell if the perps were wolves or coyotes. O'Donoghue's solution is to take things slow. He and his team will reintroduce just four to six lynx in each forest. Only after monitoring the ecosystems for three to five years will they decide whether it's ready for more. "The point is to make the whole process driven by facts and data," says O'Donoghue.

But that does't mean they won't check in with the neighbors before they start releasing wild cats. The Lynx UK Trust is polling the communities around each forest—in at least one of the areas the idea enjoys 80 percent support. These polls are crucial for getting government approval on the reintroduction project, and also important for the survival of the cats. "If there is an attitude of tolerance, the chances of a successful outcome are higher," says Ripple. "Intolerance results in persecution." He's speaking from experience here. In the American west, the wolves's endangered species status is under constant assault by ranchers, cattlemen, and other people who feel like their rural territory is being encroached upon. Similarly, the most vocal opponents of the UK lynx reintroduction have been cattle and livestock owners, who don't buy O'Donoghue's assurances that there will be more than enough deer to keep the lynx sated. So just in case, O'Donoghue says, "We'll run a full compensation program, so no farmer will suffer any loss whatsoever."

Once the researchers get all that out of the way, the really hard part starts: actually moving lynxes. They'll come from established lynx populations in eastern Europe via a quarantine facility before boarding a plane to Great Britain. Once the pathogen-free kitties arrive on the island nation, they'll spend four to five weeks in a fenced-in, wooded enclosure getting fattened up on fresh meat and eased out of the anxiety of the big migration. "By the time they are released, these will be some of the healthiest lynx around," says O'Donoghue. No word if that health care will be covered by the NHS.

And how will they know if the rewilding works? Ecologists will watch populations of lynx and deer, of course, as well as concomittant stats in the rest of the ecosystem. With GPS collars, they'll monitor each lynx's territory size and habitat use. But if the project succeeds and the lynx take hold, the weird call of a deposed apex predator, returned to the throne, could sound out for the first time since before the Picts and the Gaels formed the Kingdom of Scotland.
====================
Photo: VW

Bring It to North-America!

Once again, it looks like Europeans get the most fuel-efficient cars. VW has unveiled the diesel engine that will power its Polo Bluemotion and help it achieve a pretty impressive 71.3 MPG US, or 87 grams of CO2 per kilometer. The TDI engine has a displacement of 1.2-liter and loses a cylinder compared to its bigger TDI brothers.

See also: VW Debuts the Eco Up! Natural Gas Car (29% Less CO2 per Mile than the Prius)

Photo: VW

Proving that such internal combustion engines can meet current and future demands - with top values in reduced emissions - is the new 1.2l TDI with 3 cylinders in the Polo BlueMotion. Despite its relatively small displacement, the 1.2l 55kW / 75PS TDI engine can deliver a torque of 180 Nm at 2,000 rpm. The specification for the new 3-cylinder TDI called for the greatest possible dynamic engine performance with reduced displacement, maximum acoustic comfort and systematic weight reduction - without compromising the engine's thermodynamic efficiency. All of the advantages of a reduced number of cylinders - primarily reduced weight and friction power loss - are being exploited as well.

All that torque for a light car should make it very drivable around town, especially since Bluemotion cars usually get weight reduction tweaks. And if VW uses its 6 or 7 speed dual clutch transmission, it should do fine on the highway too (it's easier to keep the engine in its sweet spot when you have more gears).

While squeezing more efficiency out of the internal combustion engine is a good idea, what we really need are 1) alternatives to cars and 2) cars that are orders of magnitude more environmentally benign than what we have now (f.ex. an electric car made with recycled/recyclable materials in a zero-waste factory powered by clean energy, then the car is powered by clean energy during use, and at the end of its life the vast majority of it is recycled, including the batter - that wouldn't be perfect, but much better than what we have today).

Via VW, ABG

More Green(er) Cars

Ford is Increasing Use of Non-Steel Renewable & Recyclable Materials

Nissan Taking LEAF Reservations Starting Tomorrow ($99, Refundable)

Drive No More: 6 Alternatives to Your Car
====================
Wednesday’s bomb attack was carried out by a Syrian national working with Kurdish militants, Turkish PM alleges, as military convoy hit in south-east

Turkey has blamed Wednesday’s car bomb attack on a military convoy in Ankara on Kurds based in Syria, as another explosion hit a convoy in the south-east.



The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoğlu, alleged that Wednesday’s attack, which left 28 dead, was carried out by a Syrian Kurdish fighter with links to the People’s Protection Units (YPG), a Kurdish militia that has been supported by the US in the fight against Islamic State in northern Syria. The outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ party (PKK) assisted with the attack, Davutoğlu said.

Turkey attacks: a timeline Read more

“We collected intelligence all night,” Davutoğlu told reporters in Ankara. “The perpetrators have been fully identified. The attack was carried out by YPG member Salih Necer, who came in from Syria.”



Fourteen people have been held in connection with the attack.

Davutoğlu said Turkish intelligence had established where the militants had crossed into Turkey and how their networks were organised.

“This information will be given to all countries, primarily the five permanent members [of the United Nations security council],” Davutoğlu said, once more underlining Turkey’s opposition to the YPG’s participation at UN-brokered Syria peace talks in Geneva.

“The evidence that shows that the YPG is a terrorist organisation will be given to all countries … Just as we don’t sit down with al-Qaida and Islamic State, we cannot sit down with the YPG either. Those that see Turkey’s enemy as their friend will lose Turkey’s friendship.”

The Turkish government has lashed out at its western allies, foremost the US, over their refusal to designate the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union (PYD) and its armed wing, the YPG, as a terrorist organisation.



The head of the PYD denied allegations that it or the YPG was involved. “We have never heard of this person Salih Necer,” Salih Muslim told Agence France-Presse. “These accusations are clearly related to Turkish attempts to intervene in Syria.”

Ankara bombing: blaming Kurds suits Erdoğan's political ends Read more

Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said the evidence pointed to the Syrian Kurdish group. “Despite the fact that their leader says they have nothing to do with this, the information and documents obtained by our interior ministry and all our intelligence organisations shows that [the attack] was theirs,” he said.

On Thursday morning a bomb detonated by remote control hit security forces travelling in a military vehicle on a road linking Diyarbakır to the district of Lice. The military said six people died and one was seriously injured.

Turkish artillery in the south of the country shelled positions of Kurdish fighters in Syria for the fifth day in a row on Wednesday, despite calls from both the US and Russia to cease all hostilities towards the YPG in Syria.

Turkish military also conducted airstrikes against several PKK targets in northern Iraq.

Cemil Bayık, the leader of a Kurdish umbrella organisation that includes the PKK, said in an interview with the pro-Kurdish Firat News Agency that he did not know who was behind the attack in Ankara. But he suggested that Kurdish militants, angered by Turkish military operations in the country’s south-east, may have acted independently.

Security analyst and al-Monitor columnist Metin Gürcan said such an attack would set a dangerous precedent, as it would suggest “a sort-of Isis-style franchising, involving semi-independent Kurdish networks. It would be a sign of decentralisation of PKK violence – an attack not directly ordered by the organisation, and not claimed by them.”

Gürcan criticised the “toxic politics of polarisation” driven by the Turkish government, arguing that Erdoğan relied on this polarisation in order to secure the necessary majority for his project of an executive presidency. “The [Ankara] attack will further feed this deep [division that runs through] Turkish society, it will exacerbate the conflict that has become increasingly difficult to manage for the government.”

The bombing prompted Davutoğlu to scrap a planned trip to Brussels on Thursday to discuss Europe’s migrant crisis. Erdoğan also shelved a trip to Azerbaijan.



Wednesday’s car bomb detonated when a convoy of military buses carrying dozens of soldiers stopped at traffic lights in central Ankara, sparking panic and chaos. Plumes of smoke could be seen from all over the city rising from the scene, close to the headquarters of the Turkish military and the parliament.

Ankara has been on high alert since October, when 103 people were killed in a suicide attack on a crowd of peace activists, the bloodiest attack in the country’s modern history. Last month 11 people were killed when a suicide bomber blew himself up in the tourist heart of Turkey’s biggest city, Istanbul.

Those attacks were blamed on Islamic State, as were two other deadly bombings in the country’s Kurdish-dominated south-east in 2015.

Turkey is waging an all-out assault on the PKK, which has repeatedly attacked members of the security forces with roadside bombings on their convoys in the south-east.

The PKK launched an insurgency against the Turkish state in 1984. It was initially fighting for Kurdish independence although now its aim is more focused on greater autonomy and rights for Turkey’s largest ethnic minority.

The banned ultra-left Revolutionary People’s Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C) has also staged a string of usually small-scale attacks in Istanbul over the past few months.
====================
Her position underscores the fragility of the Senate Democratic majority. Heitkamp defends gun vote

Heidi Heitkamp’s office was flooded with calls from North Dakotans in the run-up to last week’s high-profile vote to expand background checks on gun purchasers.

The overwhelming consensus: Vote no.

Story Continued Below

In an interview in her office this week, the freshman Democrat defended the biggest vote of her young Senate career, when she joined with three other Democrats and most Senate Republicans to oppose expanding background checks during commercial gun sales.

( Also on POLITICO: Giffords group hits McConnell, Ayotte)

“I think I always had a reputation as somebody who will listen, somebody who is pretty independent-minded but also believes that at the end of the day, you got to listen to your constituents,” Heitkamp said. “In this office, the calls literally were before the last day at least 7 to 1 against that bill. This was after a series of very extensive ad campaigns done in my state saying call me and tell me to support it.”

Heitkamp’s opposition came after intense lobbying by President Barack Obama’s chief of staff, former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and her husband, Mark Kelly — and families of the victims from the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School last year. The vote turned Heitkamp from an unexpected victor of a 2012 Senate race to a liberal punching bag, fielding a sharp jab from Obama’s former chief of staff, Bill Daley, who demanded a refund of his campaign donation.

( PHOTOS: Politicians with guns)

It all amounted to an unusual amount of attention for a woman who hailed from a town of 90 people, hadn’t held an elected office for a dozen years and is so new to the Senate that she is still cramped in a small ground-level temporary office. But Heitkamp’s vote last week serves as a stark reminder that Obama’s domestic agenda rests largely on wooing both Republicans and red-state Democrats who are unafraid to buck their party.

Heitkamp said that she may have “disappointed” many, but she heard an outpouring of opposition back home that she couldn’t ignore, forcing her to cast a critical vote against the plan.

Asked about polls showing more than 90 percent of voters supporting expanded background checks, including back home, Heitkamp doubted that was truly indicative of public opinion. She compared the polls to her improbable Senate win showing her down double digits to Republican Rick Berg just weeks before Election Day.

“That wasn’t true either,” she quipped.

“There was a lot of concern in North Dakota that there is always this push for one size fits all,” she said. “North Dakota has one of the highest rates of gun ownership and the lowest rate of gun violence. And I think people there look at this from the standpoint that: This is my Second Amendment right. This is part of our culture in North Dakota. And they expressed those opinions to me pretty loud and clear.”

Heitkamp’s position underscores the fragility of the Senate Democratic majority and the constant challenges facing Obama’s second-term agenda. In order to keep their Senate majority, Democrats recruited moderates like Heitkamp who could be elected in red states. But those same Democrats are hardly reliable votes for Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) as they try to usher through an agenda on guns, immigration and the deficit before the 2014 midterm elections dominate the national landscape.
====================
Hello. Yes, I'm writing again after a long absence. This is something I've been playing with for some time-and it's rather lighter than my other stories. It's a Snape/Harry mentor story (because everyone has to write one).

The Best Revenge

Chapter 1

Harry Potter was coming to Hogwarts. He was coming soon: only a few pages away by the self-updating potions calendar on the wall of Severus Snape's laboratory.

Snape would have the rest of July, when he would brew Poppy's list for the infirmary. He would have August, his last blessed month of freedom to finish his private projects before the arrival of the dunderheads. Then the latest scion of that rotten stock would be swaggering through the halls of what had been to Snape both haven and prison for so many quiet years.

He glared at the calendar, resenting it. With nightmare clarity he pictured James Potter, snitch in hand, lording it over a new generation, smirking at him from the back row of the student desks, waiting for the chance to humiliate him once more. Living through the misery of his student years had been bad enough: now he would have to relive them, day by miserable day. It had been seven years of hell. He had raised the possibility of a sabbatical with Albus, and had been refused with a smile and a dozen good reasons.

Restless, he shut down the current potion, and put it in stasis. He was too distracted to work well at the moment. Harry Potter was coming to Hogwarts, and Snape might as well try to command the tides as prevent the imminent catastrophe.

Everyone else was astir with excitement. Whispers about The Boy-Who- Lived rustled through the halls. Not just his colleagues, either: even the ghosts gossiped discreetly. The very portraits were uncommonly active, awaiting the young hero.

Climbing a staircase and stalking quickly down a hall, Snape scowled at the worst offenders, a gaggle of shrill voiced witches forever celebrating Beltane. One of them, the sultry, buxom one with flaming tresses, always made eyes at him when he passed. Today she blew him a sympathetic kiss. He did not respond, and felt like lashing out as they commented on his weakness for red hair.

Minerva was working on the Hogwarts letters today. She had said as much at breakfast. Like himself, she did not spend the whole of the summer at the school, but was back and forth as her duties demanded. Not like Sprout, engrossed in her gardens for the entire time. No, Minerva had just returned for the letters.

She had worked out a system that had served her well for years. Obviously, she did not write each letter herself, but had the Hogwarts Quill produce them en masse from a template. All the birds of the owlery hovered nearby, ready to deliver the letters throughout Magical Britain.

For all that, he thought she looked harassed, after he knocked and was invited in to her office. Meticulous as she was, the letters resisted organization: Parchment flew about, folding itself, flying past the seal. Green ink and purple wax puddled on the floor, despite her efforts and those of the house elves.

She gave him a sharp glance. "Come to make yourself useful?"

"I certainly hope not," he grunted. "I've had all I care for of making myself useful in the dungeons today. I'm about to grow bonespurs from all the Skele-Gro I've brewed."

"Puir wee laddie," she said, utterly without sympathy, catching the latest parchment escaping from the Quill, and waving it off in the proper direction. "Wayward things. I sometimes wonder if the Quill wants these children here at all."

Snape slumped into a chair. "I can think of one of the little buggers I'd prefer not to see."

She pressed her lips together reprovingly. "Pull yourself together, Severus. He's only a child."

"Only The Child-of-Destiny-Who-Lived-to-Rule-All-Hogwarts. Can you imagine how spoiled rotten he is?"

"I have met Draco Malfoy," she replied, peering over her glasses, brows raised.

Snape scoffed, watching the owls catch each whizzing letter in unfailing talons. "He's bound to be worse."

A letter fluttered by, and Snape was distracted by it.

Neville Longbottom

The Terribly Untidy Room with all the Plants

Longbottom Lodge

Lancs.

Minerva was quiet for a moment, letting another piece of parchment fly, and then remarked, "I'm not too sure of that. Who knows what those wretched muggles he lives with have done to him?"

"Lily's sister and her husband. I daresay they dote on him."

"Possibly. Possibly not. I told Albus—" she scowled and vanished another splotch of green. "—I told him that I had taken a look at them, and that they were the worst sort of muggle—smug and suburban and small-minded. Scarcely a book in the house, and the two of them slobbering over their own little boy in a very unhealthy way. It all gave me a very bad feeling."

"The idea of Harry Potter here gives me a very bad feeling. I daresay Albus had his reasons."

"Well, obviously the boy's godfather-" She paused, and a quick flash of misery spread over her stern face, and was just as quickly overcome.

"Quite," Snape replied after a moment of deep and holy satisfaction. The murderer Sirius Black was safely in Azkaban, where he belonged, and where he could threaten no one else. It had taken the lives of thirteen muggles and his friend Pettigrew to convince the wizarding world of what Snape had known for years: Black was a killer—a violent sociopath without any regard for the lives of others. If his homicidal tendencies had been nipped in the bud, back in those dreadful school years... Well, as far as he was concerned, those unnecessary deaths lay directly at the Headmaster's door. Dumbledore had viewed Black's attack on Snape's life as a merry prank gone wrong. Snape had known better then, and did not mind being proved to have been right all along.

Nonetheless, Black had been the Potter child's guardian, and with his incarceration, Albus had stepped in, and placed the child not with any of his eager wizarding relations, but with Lily Potter's muggle sister. No one had seen him since, other than a few pushing gawkers. No doubt it was intended to keep the boy safe, but Snape wondered, judging from his own experience, if life in the muggle world was really a good thing for any wizarding child.

Curious in spite of himself, he asked, "Does Albus visit the boy?"

A letter flew by, and Snape snorted at the address:

Draco Malfoy

The Green Room. (It's NOT Called the Nursery Anymore!)

Malfoy Manor

Wilts

"No," Minerva replied, with a disapproving scowl. "No one has been allowed to visit. I asked if I might, a few years back, and Albus told me he had promised the aunt to leave them alone. That did not speak well for her, as far as I was concerned."

"I quite agree." Another letter flew by, lazily spiraling in the fresh breeze from the window. Snape saw the name, and summoned it.

Harry Potter

The Cupboard Under the Stairs

Number 4, Privet Drive

Little Whinging, Surrey.

Snape's eyes widened. What's this?

With an attempt at unconcern, he asked, "Does the address reflect the child's current location at the moment the letter is addressed?"

"No," Minerva answered irritably. "That would be impossibly difficult. It's generally directed to the place where the child regularly sleeps. Now if you don't mind, I'm very busy, even if you're slacking off."

"Do you read the addresses as you work?"

"I hardly have time!"

Snape studied the heavy yellow parchment thoughtfully, and set it aside.

How very interesting. The Cupboard Under the Stairs. The words rattled about in his head, conjuring unpleasant visions, recalling ugly memories. As a child, he had been locked in a wardrobe on occasion and he disliked small spaces to this day. He thought more seriously about his memories of Petunia: how unpleasant she had been to him personally, and how bitter and jealous of Lily she became over the years.

She wouldn't dare—or would she? He snorted. Why not? A helpless child at her mercy with no one overseeing her…an opportunity to get a bit of her own back…Lily's parents long dead, of course... Dumbledore's promise of no interference…There's no one, absolutely no one to prevent her from treating the boy exactly as she likes.

"Do you simply send the letters out and hope for the best?"

"What? Of course not. I visit the muggleborn children personally." She jerked her chin, indicating a small stack of envelopes on the desk. "Otherwise we'd never hear from them. Where would they find an owl?"

He smirked. "Do you think Harry Potter has access to an owl?"

She saw the letter on the table beside him and glared at him. "Don't try to stop the letters going out, Severus. Unpleasant things would happen to you."

"The thought never crossed my mind."

It appeared that Minerva was nearing the bottom of the list of names. The Quill wrote the letters, Minerva signed them, the parchment fluttered itself dry, and the Quill addressed the letter. It gathered up a supply list from a waiting pile, and folded itself neatly. It was then passed under a glass globe filled with warm purple wax and promptly punched with a wet and hearty smack that resembled a kiss. If Minerva did not catch the letter to add to the muggleborn stack, the letter flew to the waiting owl and was gone in a moment.

The rhythm was almost hypnotic. Snape watched the process, thinking about the son of James Potter. Then he thought about the son of Lily Evans. Then he thought about the poor-relation nephew of Petunia. If only the child were a girl, he thought. I could think of a girl as Lily's more easily.

It was rather pleasing to imagine a young James Potter reduced to poverty and sleeping in a boot cupboard. It was not so pleasing to imagine Lily in the same situation. Petunia has a husband and a child of her own. Perhaps there is some rivalry? She wouldn't want her sister's child to outshine her son the way Lily always outshone Petunia herself. I wonder if the husband is a restraining influence. The address would seem to indicate otherwise. Perhaps this Mr Dursley is a weakling, dominated by Petunia. The girl was horribly shrill at times—and spiteful, too.

James Potter's son. The bully's son bullied in his turn. What had ten years with Petunia done to the child? Snape grimaced. Dumbledore behaved as if he had never heard of abused or traumatized children, and when told of cases, tended to dismiss them as exaggerations. It was a constant puzzlement to Snape. Dumbledore had known generations of students, many of whom arrived bearing mental and physical scars. Only a blind state of denial could explain the Headmaster's blithe optimism.

Perhaps Dumbledore's childhood was perfectly idyllic, and he cannot imagine anything else. Ten years in a cupboard? The boy may be half-mad. He may be neurotic, withdrawn, repressed, hopelessly damaged. So much for the Boy-Who-Lived. Does Dumbledore think of him only as a symbol?

It was time to say something, he decided. "I know Lily's sister rather well, actually. We grew up in the same town, the Evans girls and I. Petunia resented Lily from the day she got her Hogwarts letter. She may not like sending her nephew to Hogwarts. Perhaps I should pay a call on her and discuss it."

"Really, Severus," Minerva protested, "the responsibility is mine."

"But you have all the rest to attend to."

"They won't be allowed to refuse to send him to Hogwarts, you know."

Snape could imagine Dumbledore's response to anyone who tried it. "I would imagine not. I'm sure I can make it clear that that is not an option."

"Perhaps my appearance might be salutary."

"Oh, yes, I daresay," sneered Snape. "Mine, however, might be even more so."

She paused in her work, eyeing him narrowly. "You disliked her."

"I dislike everyone."

"Don't be too intimidating, Severus."

"I shall be exactly as intimidating as I need to be."

She laughed ruefully. "If she really is uncooperative, I expect you to take young Harry for his supplies yourself. Dumbledore has his Gringotts key. Do you think you're equal to giving the grand tour of Diagon Alley to Harry Potter?"

He frowned, and gave her a considering nod. He picked up the letter again, careful to keep the address from Minerva, and thrust it into a pocket. His lips quirked, remembering himself as a wide-eyed small boy, holding the hand of a small, equally wide-eyed Lily. It was a precious memory, carefully guarded from the greatest practitioners of Legilimancy. The smiled curdled a little. It should have been James Potter who took his small son to see the wizarding world for the first, ravishing, glorious, unbelievable time. How Potter would have strutted down the Alley, waving at his friends, making grand entrances as he showed off his heir at all the shops. Snape pictured father and son lingering over the Quidditch supplies. But James Potter was dead, and would be rolling—no, thrashing- in his grave to see himself replaced by his hated enemy. The thought made him feel a trifle giddy.

"Yes," he answered aloud, feeling cheerful for the first time in weeks. "I can think of no one better."

At lunchtime, Dumbledore was quite astonished at Snape's involvement in the case: astonished, and perhaps (though this was well-hidden) not entirely pleased, despite a beaming smile.

"My dear boy, I am so pleased to see you letting bygones be bygones. Do you really wish to deliver Harry's letter personally?"

"I believe it will save time in the end, Headmaster," he replied, all of his mental shields in place. "I have no desire to make more of a to-do over a first-year student than necessary. Besides, I confess a slight curiosity to see Petunia Evans after so many years."

"If you really believe there will be some difficulty, Hagrid would be more than willing—"

"I am not afraid of difficulties," he replied, rather stiffly, "and I have other errands in the Alley. A brief diversion. As I told Minerva," he remarked, nodding in her direction, "I am the best qualified person: I know the aunt personally, and as a halfblood who lived in the muggle world in childhood, I can anticipate Potter's questions and concerns better than anyone else here."

Albus peered at him, with just a touch of reproach. "I do hope," he said gently, "that you are not looking upon this as an opportunity for an act of retribution on James Potter. While I know that the two of you had your differences as students, it would be very, very wrong if you were visit your resentment on an innocent boy. I daresay young Harry is much like his father, and that might cause you to brood over wounds that should have healed long ago-"

Minerva broke in, rather sharply. "They certainly should have, and you oughtn't to stir the pot by bringing them up again, Albus. It was very thoughtful of Severus to offer to help me. He was quite right to point out that Harry will have no way to reply. Besides, it's important that someone else understand this process—"

Dumbledore smiled again, and waved a hand to calm her. "Yes, yes, my dear Minerva. There is much in what you say. It was very kind of Severus—very kind indeed. Nonetheless, my boy, if you find yourself too busy this afternoon, it will be no trouble at all for Hagrid to go." He gave Snape another searching glance, combining hope with doubt—a glance Snape had seen all too often.

He grimaced and looked away, attacking his roast beef vindictively. His thoughts whirled. What was the old man at? The Headmaster's words had brought to mind how much James Potter had done to torment him. Minerva's intervention had calmed him somewhat, and now he was wondering what game Dumbledore was playing.

He did not want Snape to retrieve the Potter boy. That much was clear. However, he did not want to forbid him outright, since that would be impolitic, as Minerva had already agreed. Despite his fair words, his demeanor was clearly meant to discourage. In this situation, it roused Snape's curiosity. Was there something wrong with the boy? Something he did not want Snape to see?

Dumbledore had not insisted that Minerva go herself, but had wished to substitute Hagrid. Why? Hagrid had always treated Snape well, but no one could accuse the fellow of being the ideal choice to advise a new student, or to explain the intricacies of the wizarding world. What made Hagrid so desirable?

He was big and imposing, of course, which made Snape suspect that the Headmaster did in fact expect "difficulties." Perhaps Dumbledore knew a great deal about the boy's situation, and that in turned raised a train of thought that Snape had no time to explore. What else?

Minerva was shrewd and observant, and if there were something amiss in Petunia's household, she would pick up on it immediately. Hagrid was unlikely to notice silent hostility, at least, and might not think to mention it. Furthermore, Hagrid was an ardent old Gryffindor, and vocal about it. Unlike McGonagall, who was scrupulously fair, he would likely prejudice the boy in favor of his parents' house, and fill the child's ears with tales of his father's shining qualities. Snape vowed that if he could prevent nothing else, he would make it his mission to prevent that. And yes, Hagrid was personally loyal to Dumbledore—all right, fair enough. Dumbledore wanted the boy to be given the most admiring, laudatory image of Dumbledore possible. Perhaps it was an old man's harmless vanity. It could also mean that Dumbledore regarded the boy as important enough that he wanted to be able to influence and manipulate his actions. He had long understood that Dumbledore believed the Dark Lord would return someday. There was that cursed, abominable prophecy—

The one that will vanquish the Dark Lord approaches…

The juicy roast beef tasted of dust and ashes. Despite Dumbledore's dire predictions, Snape personally believed that the prophecy had already been fulfilled, and thus was of no further value. As an infant, The Boy-Who-Lived had indeed vanquished the Dark Lord. Snape wondered if the boy was cognizant of his status. Since Petunia had not seen fit to capitalize on it in any way, it was possible—just possible—that he was not.

What would be the affect on an ignorant boy, coming from the humdrum life of muggles, to find that he was a hero? To find out that magic was real, and that he was already a famous wizard? Would he coast through life because of something that he could not possibly remember, with all his glories behind him? It would be all too easy to mold such a boy into the semblance of his reckless, shallow, impulsive father.

On the other hand, if Snape would not step aside in favor of Hagrid, Dumbledore's fallback plan might be for Snape to meet Famous Harry Potter angrily and resentfully, to willfully ignore any problems evident in the boy's life—perhaps to maliciously withhold such information from others. That would inevitably push the boy toward anyone who seemed to be Snape's opposite number. By reminding Snape of his most painful grievances, Dumbledore was subtly encouraging him to do his worst.

Snape hissed at his defenseless plate, realizing that he had almost fallen in with the old man's scheme. His curiosity was now aroused to the highest degree. He must play this carefully, seeming to be uninterested, even slightly contemptuous of the boy—hardly difficult—and yet intent on his duty. He would get the key from Dumbledore immediately. He would probably have to accompany the child to the Potter vault. That was a bonus. Perhaps he could have a glimpse of the Potter wealth, the fame of which had been a weapon in James Potter's hands. Snape did not care much about money, per se, but he had often pondered what he could have done with his life—the places he could have seen, the studies he could have pursued-had he been as rich as Lucius Malfoy or the Black Family—or Potter. He certainly would not be endlessly reliving his wretched youth as a teacher in his old school. Potter had been rich, certainly—a careless, rich pureblood—so rich that he could marry a muggleborn witch with no money of her own and carry it all off effortlessly.

Of course, Lily had been very special. Any other muggleborn witch would have looked foolish and awkward and out of place in the circles Lily had married into. Lily had never looked out of place in her life. If the boy could model himself after his mother, now, there would be hope for him. Snape pictured a small head bent over a pile of books: a diligent student, not sliding by like his father on charm and raw talent…

Dumbledore appeared to be nearly finished with his pastries. The remains of the overloaded plate of sugary dainties made Snape a little queasy, as he contemplated the smeared gobbets of brown and red and pale green. It reminded him of the aftermath of an Entrail-Expelling Curse.

"I shall need Potter's Gringotts key," he announced crisply, setting down his own fork with a silvery clink.

"Today?" Dumbledore looked at him in incredulity. "Surely it is too early for Harry to receive his letter."

Minerva was listening, and swiftly interposed. "No, Albus. Harry's eleventh birthday is today. I had planned to send the letter, but Severus will hand-deliver it. And the sooner the better," was her muttered addendum.

Snape refrained from smirking. At times Minerva could be a cunning and powerful ally.

"Today?" Dumbledore repeated. "His birthday? Perhaps it would interrupt his aunt's arrangements for his birthday party. The boy may be surrounded by his young friends. Hardly a discreet situation in which to reveal such sensitive information. Surely tomorrow would be better, Severus—"

"It is convenient for me to attend to this today, and I would have thought I had established my credentials for secrecy and discretion." Snape was tired of games. "The boy can consider the letter a birthday gift. The key, if you please, Headmaster."

He looked directly in Dumbledore's eyes, and thought, with no attempt to shield his mind, Sod all if I'm going to wait for morning. Dumbledore's bushy eyebrows rose in mild surprise, but the key was duly handed over. Snape gave the table a curt nod and strode away, girding himself to face an old acquaintance and a noisy children's party in darkest Surrey.

Note: This story also exists in an illustrated version! Check my profile for details.
====================
FROZEN ROYALTY EXCLUSIVE: In the second installment of a series featuring the television and radio broadcasters of the Los Angeles Kings, the Voice of the Kings, Bob Miller, shared his thoughts on the Kings winning the Stanley Cup, its impact, and what it all means to him.

LOS ANGELES — After 39 years behind the microphone, calling the action for the Los Angeles Kings—the first 17 years on radio and television (simulcast), and for the last 21 years, exclusively on television, the Voice of the Kings, Bob Miller, has finally been able to add the one thing that was missing on his resume…

…calling the action for a Stanley Cup Championship team.

Indeed, when the Kings won the first Stanley Cup Championship in the 45-year history of the franchise on June 11, 2012, defeating the New Jersey Devils, 6-1, to win the 2012 Stanley Cup Final in six games, Miller’s biggest concern was finally laid to rest: that he would retire, and the next season, the Kings would win the Stanley Cup.

“It was getting down to where I was honestly thinking, how many more years am I going to [work], and I’m never going to see [the Kings win the Stanley Cup]? Now I have,” Miller told Frozen Royalty in an exclusive interview.

As it has been for everyone in the Kings organization, this summer has been very, very different, with the Stanley Cup traveling around Southern California and the world with Kings players, coaches, management and staff.

“It has been [a very different summer],” Miller noted. “Very enjoyable. But [there has been such] increased demands on your time, not that I’m complaining. I don’t think any of us are complaining, because it’s been so much fun. ‘Can you be here with the Cup? Can you be there with the Cup?’”

“It’s what we’ve all waited for, all our lives,” Miller added. “[My wife, Judy] and I were going to our fourth or fifth Cup party, and I said, ‘are we going to go to every one of these Cup parties?’ We looked at each other and said, ‘yes we are! We’re going to every one of them!’”

“It’s just been so much fun, and yet, I can see now what they mean by the Stanley Cup hangover. When it really came home to me was two days after we won the Cup—the schedule for the next season came out. Usually, we’re waiting months for that. I said, ‘holy cow!’”

Looking back on that historic night in June, Miller lamented a delayed opportunity.

“Jimmy and I were doing the post-game show, and then Patrick O’Neal came up and said, ‘hey, they want you on the ice,’” Miller explained. “So he took over the post-game show, and Jim and I went down on the ice. By the time we got there, all the players had gone.”

“My wife said that Dustin Brown was looking for [me],” Miller elaborated. “‘Where’s Bob? I want to give him the Cup.’ But he was gone by then.”

Unlike the media, who were not allowed into the Kings dressing room after the game, Miller was able to join the team’s celebration, but not without a bit of difficulty.

“I did get in the locker room, but they weren’t letting media in the locker room, so when I went to go in there, I didn’t show them my Kings staff credential,” said Miller. “I showed them the Stanley Cup [credential].”

Staples Center security, as instructed, were denying media access to the dressing room, and even though Miller is so well-known, and has the Staples Center press box named after him, apparently, security staff had no idea who he was.

Miller managed to bypass security by entering through another door.

“Somebody else from the NHL said, ‘Bob, go through the trainer’s room,’ so I went through [there], and into the locker room,” he noted. “They were all spraying champagne around, and of course, I got hit right in the face. I could not open my eyes. Then, I heard the players [saying], ‘Bob, you’ve got to have a drink out of the Cup.’ They’re bringing it over, and I still couldn’t see. I got some champagne in my mouth, and the rest came all the way down the front [of his suit]. It was great to be in there and see them have that celebration.”

After the dressing room celebration, the Kings hosted a party for the team and Kings staff in the San Manuel Club on the Suite Level, where Brown finally found Miller.

“At the [team] party, Dustin Brown came up, and he had the Cup,” Miller recalled. “He said to me, ‘I’ve been looking for you for two hours.’ That’s when we got to hold it up. It was nice. Judy was there, our son and daughter [were there]. They’ve been going to games since we moved here when they were seven and five years old, so it had a lot of meaning to them.”

“I don’t think we got home until 2:30 in the morning,” Miller added. “We weren’t in a hurry to get home.”

Days later, the fact that the Kings had won the Stanley Cup still had not sunk in.

“I think, for the next three days, we’d wake up every morning, look at each other, and say, ‘did we really see that? Did that really happen,’ especially [given that] midway through the season, we thought, ‘that’s not going to happen,’” said Miller. “Even to the last week [of the regular season], when you get the eighth seed, you think, ‘OK, maybe we can get by the first round.’”

“It’s still, sometimes, ‘I can’t believe it happened.’”

Three days later, Miller and his wife found themselves riding down Figueroa Street in grand style, aboard one of the double decker buses carrying the Kings during their Stanley Cup parade on June 14 in Downtown Los Angeles, where an estimated 250,000 lined the streets, joining in the celebration.

“[Before the Kings won the Stanley Cup], I was thinking that I’ll never see a Kings parade,” said Miller. “You’d sit here for years and years, watching other teams have their Stanley Cup parade, I always thought, ‘when’s our turn? Why can’t we do this?’ Carolina, Tampa Bay, Anaheim [had all won the Cup]. For years, I was thinking, ‘these teams aren’t much better than we are. How are they winning Cups, and we’re not there?’”

“So I’m riding on the bus, and I’m looking at the throngs of people on both sides of Figueroa Street, then we turn the corner around Staples Center, what was going through my mind was that this was what all of us had waited so many years for,” added Miller. “It was fun. You’d see certain people. They’d yell, ‘hey Bob,’ and you’d recognize them.”

Miller also noted the decorum exhibited by fans that day.

“I was so proud that Kings fans showed the world that you can celebrate a championship without vandalism, destruction, rioting, or anything like that,” he said. “I had a chance, on July 4, in a parade, to talk to [one of] the Deputy Mayors of Los Angeles. She said that the police said it was the best crowd they’ve ever been around.”

“When they told people to move back a little bit, they did exactly what they [were told],” he added. “There was absolutely no problem. The police weren’t looking to arrest people. Everybody just had a great time.”

After the parade, Miller served as master of ceremonies for the celebration/rally at Staples Center, which was packed to capacity.

“The rally afterwards was great, to see everybody have a chance to be at Staples Center and cheer again,” Miller beamed. “The other thing was, when I was walking into [the arena], they were replaying Jim and myself [calling] the game [synchronized with the video of the game on the scoreboard]. The great thing was, when we’d score, they blew the [goal] horn in the building. It wasn’t on the tape, and everybody was screaming again.”

As most readers of this story probably know, Miller and Fox were forced out of the broadcast booth after the first round of the playoffs due to NBC’s television contract with the National Hockey League, granting them exclusive rights to broadcast all playoff games after the first round.

Frozen Royalty will have more on that later in this series. But during the rally, Miller got a surprise from Kings captain Dustin Brown.

After making his remarks, thanking fans for their support, Brown returned to his seat at center ice, but immediately jumped back up, and returned to the podium.

“What really surprised me was, I see Dustin jump up again, and [he wants] the mic, and I thought, ‘what’s going on here?’ Then, what he said, it was so nice.”

“This has been an unbelievable experience,” Brown said after returning to the podium. “The only thing that wasn’t perfect about this whole situation was [not] having this guy right here call the game.”

At that point, everyone on the ice, and everyone in the stands, rose to their feet, applauding and cheering loudly, in honor of Miller.

“That’s the only thing that was missing from this whole thing, having Bob and Jim call the game,” Brown added. “Everything’s been perfect except for [not] having this guy call the game.”

“Judy was sitting in the stands, and she said, ‘I just started crying,’” said Miller. “My son wrote a really nice e-mail—I didn’t know he was going to do it—to Dustin Brown, saying thank you for what you said about my Dad.”

“I’m very appreciative of what he said.”

Miller has noticed a new level of maturity and leadership from Brown this past season.

“Brown is so quiet during the season,” Miller noted. “I didn’t talk to him a lot. He’s not one who gets on the bus and says, ‘how ‘ya doin’?’ Other players do that, like [center Jarret] Stoll, and some other guys. Luc [Robitaille] was always upbeat. ‘Hey! What’s going on?’”

“Brown [kept] to himself all the time, so that surprised me a little bit, especially ‘where’s Bob? I want to hand him the Cup on the ice,’” Miller added. “That really touched me. I just wish I had been down there at the time.”

One bit of evidence that Brown has really grown into the position of team captain is that he has taken the time to get to know Kings staff beyond those in the dressing and training rooms, and he has made the effort to learn about the history of the franchise, something a lot of NHL players ignore.

“There are so many players on so many teams who don’t know [the history of their franchise],” said Miller. “They don’t know—’what did this guy ever do, how long has he been here?’ But I see that from Brown. He knows Jennifer Pope, [Manager, Community Relations and Kings Care Foundation], and what everybody else in the organization is doing.”

“That’s part of being a captain, not only knowing the guys in the locker room, but what’s the support group out here that we have,” added Miller.

A couple of weeks later, Miller hosted a party for 180 people, who all got a chance to take a photograph with the Stanley Cup.

“We were going to have it at our house, with some neighbors and friends, and the list got to be ninety people, and I said, ‘I don’t think we can have it here,’ Miller noted. “So we had a room at the Braemar Country Club [in Tarzana, California]. 180 people showed up. We had it for four hours, and that was long enough. We just appreciated getting it.”

“It was so much fun to see the reaction of people when they see the Cup,” Miller added. “They’re just so excited to get their picture taken with it, and that’s the great thing about the Cup. It’s so accessible to fans. No other trophy [is made available to fans].”

“Fans came up to me asking, ‘can I touch it?’ I said, ‘yeah, you can touch it.’ They asked. ‘Can I kiss it?’ I replied, ‘yeah, you can kiss it.”

But then came the punch line…

“We’re giving free tetanus shots in the back of the room,” Miller joked. “I said to someone, ‘I don’t know which has got more DNA on it, the Stanley Cup, or the Blarney Stone. I’ve kissed both of’em.’”

“Everybody had a great time,” Miller added. “What would happen was, you’d invite a couple, and the next day, they’d call and ask, ‘can my Mom and Dad come, and my brother, his wife, and their kids?’ So, all of a sudden, the ninety people goes up to 180. But it was fun. It was just fun for me to see the reaction, and not only at our party, but any party we go to, to see that reaction when people see the Cup.”

“Jimmy was there, and [radio play-by-play announcer] Nick [Nickson] and [radio color commentator] Daryl [Evans], even though they’re going to have the Cup on their own, and they’ve invited us. We had [former general manager and Kings right wing] Dave Taylor, and [former assistant athletic trainer] John Holmes. We had Marcia Galloway, who was the secretary in the office, Donna Moskal, the stage manager on [Kings television broadcasts], and her family were there. We didn’t do a lot of alumni, because we weren’t sure who was going to get the Cup, and when the guest list was almost getting out of hand, we thought, ‘we’ve got to end this, somewhere.’”

As the Kings general manager from April 22, 1997 through April 18, 2006, Taylor began the process of building the team by retaining first round draft picks, rather than trading them away year after year for big name players who were in the twilight of their careers who would go on to contribute almost nothing to the Kings.

Taylor, who is also responsible for the selection of Brown, star center Anze Kopitar and star goaltender Jonathan Quick in the NHL Entry Draft, is currently Vice President, Hockey Operations, for the St. Louis Blues.

“We said we wanted a picture, and [Taylor] said, ‘I will take a picture, but I will not touch the Cup,’ so he consented to have his picture taken, but he never touched the Cup,” said Miller. “He said, ‘I’ll touch it when the Blues win it.’”

“We felt that he should’ve been there,” added Miller. “He deserved it. I can understand [his feelings with] the superstition [about not touching the Cup until your team has won it]. It was fun. It was a great night.”

Given how so many Kings fans idolize him, just about everyone at the party wanted a photo with the Stanley Cup and Miller.

“I told my wife, ‘I’m not going to hang around by the Cup, or I’ll be there all night long,’ if people want a picture with the Cup with me in it,” Miller explained. “We had a long line of people. We had drinks and hors d’oeuvres, because it was 8:00 at night. As I made my way to the back of the room, someone would holler, ‘Bob, don’t go very far! We want you in our picture!’ Finally, I stayed up there, and my wife came up and said, ‘you’re doing exactly what you said you wouldn’t do! You weren’t going to stand up here!’ But they all said, ‘come here, come here! You’ve got to be in our picture.’”

“That was enjoyable,” Miller elaborated. “I kind of figured that might happen, and it wasn’t like people would get just one picture. It [was], ‘me and my wife, now one with me, now one with my wife, now we want you in this one.’ A family would come up, and there would be four or five pictures being taken.”

Speaking of Kings alumni, although few attended his Stanley Cup party, several have called Miller, making a point to congratulate him, in particular.

“Right afterwards, I heard from a lot of the Kings alumni,” said Miller. “[Former backup goaltender Gary] “Cobra” Simmons, and others who would call and say, ‘congratulations, I’m glad.’ A lot of them were so nice, and a lot of the fans, too, in saying, ‘I was happy for you, Bob, that they won it.’ I was happy for everybody. Cobra Simmons was like that, and so was Marcel Dionne.”

“I got calls from broadcasters from other teams, like the San Jose Sharks,” added Miller. “Chuck Kaiton in Carolina. They won it [in 2006]. He’s a good friend of mine. He replaced me in Wisconsin when I left there. Dave Goucher with the Boston Bruins, Nate Greenberg, who was the Bruins PR guy for a long time. It was great to hear from all of them. It was very nice of them to do that.”

Like so many of the Kings alumni who made it a point to congratulate Miller, a considerable number of fans and others told Miller during the playoffs that they wanted the Kings to win the Stanley Cup for him.

But that is not what Miller had in mind.

“I don’t want to say that they should’ve won it for me because I’ve been there 39 years,” he stressed. “There are other people, fans who were there from day one. There’s still about 100 original season ticket holders still around, something like that. So many of those fans have devoted much of their lives to supporting the Kings, being there and buying tickets. I wanted everybody to enjoy this moment that we thought we might never, ever see. That, to me, was what was so great.”

“The fans, who, year after year, buy the season tickets, and they’re disappointed and upset that we didn’t do better, now, they get to really celebrate this championship.”

Miller also thought about another individual who would have been proud of what the Kings finally accomplished, their original owner, the late Jack Kent Cooke.

“I’ve thought a lot about Mr. Cooke, who gave me a chance to come here 39 years ago,” Miller said during the on-ice celebration after Game 6. “He would be the proudest person in the building right now, because he always knew that he was going to build this team, and someday, they were going to win a championship. I think he really believed that. He probably didn’t think it would take this long, but he would be extremely happy.”

“His love was the Kings,” Miller added on August 29. “After he suffered through enough years of mediocrity, and [the team] not playing very well, and not winning anything, I think he would’ve been overjoyed.”

What would Cooke have said?

“What a marvelous job the boys have done,” said Miller, doing his best Cooke imitation.

“I was looking back over the years of [different] owners…Bruce McNall, obviously, was a long-time fan, and then owner,” added Miller. “He was thrilled with it. But for the guy who brought the franchise here, built the Forum [in Inglewood, California, the Kings’ first arena], and thought he was doing the right thing, getting established players and names in the early years, and trading those draft choices—it turned out [that] it wasn’t the right thing to do—I think he would’ve been tremendously thrilled to see that happen.”

As visible as the Stanley Cup has been as the celebration continues throughout the summer, what might be less visible is what the Kings’ first Stanley Cup Championship could do for the franchise.

“What I hope it means is that they’ve gotten away from that image of never having won anything, never having been relevant,” Miller emphasized. “That’s an image that’s very difficult to get rid of, and, on the other hand, maintain. To me, teams that have consistently won, and then, start losing, still have that image of being winning teams. In some instances, the Raiders still have an image of being a winning team, yet they’ve been terrible for years.”

“On the other hand, [a team with a long history of losing that finally wins], doesn’t always make [them] a team that, in people’s minds, are winners [or] champions,” Miller added. ‘Yeah, they’re champions this year.’ But can they keep going, and get that image of [being] a championship organization? I hope this is the start of that type of image for this team.”

Miller also expressed hope that winning the Stanley Cup will raise the Kings’ profile in Southern California.

“I hope it increases the awareness of this team, in this market,” said Miller. “It may, or it may not. I read articles, and I’m thinking, how many times have the Kings been mentioned as Stanley Cup Champions, and when they’re not, I’m disappointed. Why aren’t they mentioned? They won the championship. Maybe you’ve got to do it more than just one year.”

“You hope it increases awareness of your sport, not just among the die-hard fans, but those who, all of sudden [are just discovering the game],” added Miller. “It could do that for this organization. Right away, we’ve seen a jump in season ticket sales and merchandise.”

“Like when [former Kings and NHL superstar Wayne] Gretzky came here, the profile of the team went from hardly anything to the number one team in the league, because everybody knew of him. I look [at advertisements] in hockey magazines. ‘Get hockey sweaters,’ and I don’t see the Kings.”

“Now, maybe that’s going to change.”

Related Stories

Related Audio

Los Angeles Dodgers Play-By-Play Announcer Vin Scully Surprises Bob Miller on ESPN Radio Los Angeles – Mason and Ireland, June 12, 2012

Click on the arrow to listen (46:20)

Frozen Royalty by Gann Matsuda is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. You may copy, distribute and/or transmit any story or audio content published on this site under the terms of this license, but only if proper attribution is indicated. The full name of the author and a link back to the original article on this site are required. Photographs, graphic images, and other content not specified are subject to additional restrictions. Additional information is available at: Frozen Royalty – Licensing and Copyright Information.

Frozen Royalty’s Comment Policies
====================
Heading into his 30th year with the team, New England Patriots coach Dante Scarnecchia has been Bill Belichick's secret weapon. (USA TODAY Sports)









Scarnecchia has become a staple on the Patriots sideline, and a valuable one at that. (FILE:USPresswire)







It's no secret that for the past few years, the Patriots have dominated defenses throughout the league. In 2012 they finished the season as the top ranked offense averaging 34.8 points per game. When Tom Brady was on the money, there was no defense that could stop this offense.But there's more to the story than passing yards and touchdowns. Thanks to the hard working front five on the offensive line, Brady has time to set up his passes and the running backs have holes to break through. The man behind this sometimes overlooked part of the team, is Dante Scarnecchia.With 43 years of experience, Scarnecchia has become a staple on the Patriots sidelines. The 65-year-old is the longest tenured coach in Patriots history and the only one who has been a part of all seven championship teams. He's entering his 30th season with the team and is showing no signs of slowing down. His main focus is on the offensive line and it's his knowhow that makes all the difference.Across the board, the Patriots were top ten in all categories when it came to offensive rankings for the 2012 season. Injuries did plague the Patriots at times, but as per usual with this team, the next man on the totem pole stepped in and went to work.This season the offensive line gave up 31 sacks, good enough for ninth in the regular season. On those sacks they gave up 172 yards which put them at sixth in the league. Quantifying the success of an offensive line can be difficult but one thing you can say about the Patriots is they're consistent. Dating back to 2009 they haven't fallen below 10th in the league when it comes to sacks allowed. In a time when rosters and coaches change with the slightest breeze, this team has held firm to its roots.For the Patriots, it's not just the stats that matter. We've heard Bill Belichick say over and over again at his post game press conferences that it's any team, on any given Sunday. It's about going out there and playing your best football week after week. Scarnecchia gives the Patriots the ability to do that on a regular basis. He has worked with some of the greatest players the Patriots have seen and he's also created something out of nothing when it seems all hope is lost.Consistency is the way the Patriots win football games. They have a strong crop of talent and an even better coaching staff. Where they'll be when Scarnecchia decides to call it quits...well, lets just not think about that just yet.He has a mind that equals Belichick's and the two are a duo to be reckoned with when it comes to football IQ. Not to mention the guy looks like he can keep pace with just about any player on the field. The Patriots are lucky to have such a coach on their sidelines and in the years to come, it will be his influence that will help him continue creating some of the best offensive linemen in the game.
====================
JACK’S QUESTION:

What do we know about Joseph of Arimathea? Have scholars learned anything more about him than what is said in the Gospels?

THE RELIGION GUY’S ANSWER:

The man who buried Jesus is a timely topic for Christians’ Holy Week. The quick response is that lots of stuff about Joseph of Arimathea is floating around out there. But much of it was written long centuries after the fact and is best regarded as folklore that tells us about British national pride rather than the actual man and his history.

The four New Testament Gospels are by far the best available sources and, scholars tell us, the earliest ones, produced in their current form some three to six decades after Jesus’ crucifixion. All four Gospels have information about Joseph, a rare distinction for a minor figure, albeit one who participated in a history-changing event. (References: Matthew 27:57-60, Mark 15:43-46, Luke 23:50-53, John 19:38-42.)

The Gospels’ narratives are broadly similar, but with intriguing differences of the sort that keep exegetes up at night. We’re told Joseph was “rich” and “respected,” asked Rome’s colonial ruler Pilate for custody of Jesus’ corpse, provided his own unused tomb hewn out of rock, personally conducted the burial procedures, and rolled the famous stone across the entrance to seal the gravesite. The burial was witnessed by two women, so the Gospels teach they were not mistaken that it was Jesus’ tomb later found empty.

Mark calls Joseph a member of the “council,” which could refer to Jerusalem’s municipal government. But Luke clarifies that he belonged to the Sanhedrin that asked Pilate to execute Jesus, and says Joseph “had not consented to their purpose and deed.” Thus Mark’s statement that “all” of the Sanhedrin wanted execution can be seen as hyperbole to indicate lopsided rather than 100 percent support. John alone adds that fellow Sanhedrin member Nicodemus, who had defended Jesus during a prior dispute (John 7:50-52), joined Joseph in the burial.

Side comment: This important detail that the Sanhedrin was split helps counter anti-Semitic distortions. And divided opinion did not characterize only the Jewish rulers. Though one crowd yelled “crucify him,” Luke 23:27 reports that Jesus also received sympathy from a “great multitude of the people” lamenting his unjust execution.

Apparently Jesus’ apostles had fled in fear and Jesus’ family did not take responsibility for the burial. Executed criminals were despised and their corpses were often tossed into common graves. So Joseph’s kindly intervention for more dignified burial was notable. Commentators agree that meant some risk to his political, religious, or business reputation. In addition, handling the corpse involved ritual pollution.

Yet Joseph’s action was fully understandable for a God-fearing Jew. He took responsibility to honor the biblical law that said criminals executed “on a tree” must not be left hanging there overnight but be buried the same day (Deuteronomy 21:22-23).

Apparently there was more to it, however, and Joseph was a seeker or full-fledged believer in Jesus. Mark and Luke call him one who was “looking for the kingdom of God” while Matthew goes beyond that, saying he “was a disciple of Jesus.” John adds that he was a disciple “but secretly, for fear of the Jews.”

Final biblical detail: Experts aren’t certain where Arimathea was located, but most likely it was a settlement northwest of Jerusalem at the site of Ramah, the town of the Old Testament prophet Samuel. Joseph coming “from” Arimathea could mean he was a visitor during the crucifixion, but more likely he was already living in Jerusalem, not his hometown.

The magnum opus of technical “higher criticism” about the scriptural accounts is “The Death of the Messiah” (1994) by the late U.S. Catholic Raymond E. Brown. He devotes fully 112 of the 1,608 pages to the verses about Jesus’ burial that contain our only biblical material about Joseph.

Moving from 1st Century Scripture to later writings, Joseph became the subject of elaborate and disputed legends to an unusual degree. The process began with the 2nd Century pseudepigraphal (i.e. non-biblical) “Gospel of Peter.” Its implausible scenario made Joseph a personal friend of Jesus but also of Pilate so that his deed required no special courage. Brown said the text’s claim that Pilate could not act without permission from Herod Antipas shows ignorance about 1st Century Palestine.

The “Acts of Pilate,” probably from the 3rd Century, begins what Brown considers a “florid Joseph legend.” We’re told the Sanhedrin was angry with Joseph and jailed him for burying Jesus, but he escaped miraculously and took the chief priests to interview a man Jesus raised from the dead. There followed what Brown calls “astonishing development” during the Middle Ages. Examples:

The “Life of Mary Magdalene” from 9th Century Germany said Joseph took a 1st Century missionary trip to Britain with the biblical sisters Mary and Martha, and Mary Magdalene. That story was picked up in 11th Century England by William of Malmesbury, who originated Joseph’s link with Glastonbury Abbey. The late 12th Century poet Robert deBoron had Joseph bringing the Holy Grail (Jesus’ Last Supper chalice) to Britain. The 15th Century John of Glastonbury wrote that Joseph also brought two cruets from the Holy Land that contained Jesus’ blood and sweat from the crucifixion.

Other romances depicted Joseph as the Roman Empire’s minister of mining, or Jesus’ great-uncle who took the boyhood Savior along as he explored metal deposits in England, or Asia, or South America.

Things turned political in 1559 when newly crowned Queen Elizabeth I wrote bishops declaring that the self-governing Church of England had existed before the “Romish Church first planted the Catholic” and cited England’s chronicles as proving “Joseph of Arimathea to be the first preacher of the word of God within our realms.” Then we have the misnamed www.biblefacts.org that not only repeats Elizabeth’s contention but says Joseph died at Glastonbury on July 27 in A.D. 82!
====================
Colorado president Bruce D. Benson said his school was a "perfect match" for the Pac-10.

Big 12 commissioner Dan Beebe said in a statement that he was aware that Colorado had accepted the Pac-10's invitation and is working toward solutions to keep the Big 12 together in some form.

"I continue to work through the process that was agreed upon last week by our Board of Directors to address membership issues, and are working tirelessly towards the long-term viability of the Big 12," Beebe said.

A source with direct knowledge of the Pac-10's discussions about adding more Big 12 teams told ESPN's Joe Schad on Thursday that from the Pac-10's perspective, it's "simply a matter of who signs next."

UCLA coach Rick Neuheisel, who coached at Colorado earlier in his career, said he was "thrilled" to have the Buffaloes in the Pac-10. Colorado was put on two years' probation in 2002 mostly for recruiting violations that occurred while Neuheisel was the coach there.

Neuheisel said he has a "fond place in my heart for Colorado."

"From a proximity standpoint, we used to say, it's closer to Los Angeles than Seattle is.

"So it's got a lot of natural geographic relationships with the current Pac-10 and I think it's going to be a natural fit," Neuheisel said.

As for whether any other schools might be coming on board, Scott couldn't elaborate.

"No invitations have been issued," he said. "There are still several different scenarios that we may or may not pursue."

Scott had no timetable for when this process of possibly adding more schools may play out or an answer for whether the Pac-10 would stop at just 11 teams.

"I'm authorized to pursue several different scenarios," he said. "What direction it goes in from this point, I can't say

because I don't know."

Colorado's move might spell the end of the Big 12 Conference. Nebraska is also poised to announce its move from the conference to the Big Ten.

Texas president William Powers Jr., athletic director DeLoss Dodds and women's athletic director Chris Plonsky met with Texas A&M president Bowen Loftin, athletic director Bill Byrne and other university system officials Thursday in Austin, Texas, to discuss the future of their athletic programs and the Big 12.

A person briefed about the discussions said the situation was "still fluid" and the Texas schools could stay in the Big 12. The person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the situation, said everyone was waiting for Nebraska's expected announcement Friday.

Among topics discussed was how the Big 12 could operate with fewer teams, the person said, and the consequences such as possible litigation should there be a mass exodus that could leave some teams behind.

U.S. Rep. Chet Edwards, a Democrat from Waco, the site of Baylor, urged Texas lawmakers to immediately hold public hearings on any potential move by the schools.

"These decisions are too important to be decided solely by a small handful of people behind closed doors without public input," Edwards said.

Dodds has said he wants to keep the Big 12 together, and Texas A&M spokesman Jason Cook said the meeting Thursday included "several topics of mutual interest to both institutions" but that "no decisions were made or agreements reached."

Baylor and Texas Tech officials have said that even if the Big 12 breaks apart, they want to remain with Texas and Texas A&M as members of the same conference. But Baylor, the only private school in the Big 12, could get left behind.

"Baylor is working feverishly to keep the Big 12 together," Baylor athletic director Ian McCaw said Thursday. "It is of special importance to keep the four Big 12 schools from Texas together."

A Big 12 football coach, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told ESPN.com's Mark Schlabach on Wednesday night if Nebraska left the Big 12 the conference would dissolve, according to his athletic director and university president. The coach said Texas, Texas A&M, Texas Tech, Oklahoma, Oklahoma State and Colorado would join the Pac-10, leaving Baylor, Kansas, Kansas State, Missouri and Iowa State behind.

The coach said the Pac-10 favored Colorado over Baylor because of the Buffaloes' presence in the Denver TV market.

"Nebraska is the key," the coach said.

Another possibility has Texas A&M looking at joining the Southeastern Conference, sources told Orangebloods.com. That angle is being pushed by A&M regent Gene Stallings, who coached Alabama to a title in 1992, the sources said.

Oklahoma State said any report about an immediate announcement by the school about leaving the Big 12 was "without merit."

"There are no announcements planned by Oklahoma State University," Gary Shutt, the school's director of communications, said in a statement. "We remain committed to the Big 12 Conference. If there are additional defections, we will have to evaluate our options."

The Pac-10 has given some preliminary thoughts to possibly changing its name after bringing in Colorado.

But that's down the road.

"From my perspective, the name of the conference, the brand -- what it stands for -- ought to reflect the membership," Scott said.

"Until our deliberations are concluded about what is the constitution of our membership, we won't go about the process of thinking about the logo or the name."

One area the league wants to take a long look at is scheduling.

More specifically, ways to reduce travel to minimize missed classes. That could mean two divisions based on geographic

location.

"We are determined in whatever scenario we wind up with, through the use of divisions and creative scheduling, to make sure that any of these expansion scenarios -- including the most extreme that you've heard of -- do not result in significantly greater travel distances nor more missed class time," Scott said. "I'm confident that in any of the scenarios we're contemplating, that will not be the case."

The Pac-10 expanded for the first time since 1978, when the conference brought in Arizona and Arizona State.

A source close to the Nebraska program told ESPN's Chris Mortensen that athletic director Tom Osborne informed some staff members the Cornhuskers were going to make the move to the Big Ten.

A source with knowledge of the Big Ten's plans confirmed to ESPN.com's Adam Rittenberg that Nebraska will join the Big Ten by the end of this week or early next week. The source said the formal process of accepting a candidate either has started or would be under way shortly, as Nebraska must formally apply for admission to the Big Ten.

"It's going to happen, unless something crazy happens in the final hours," the source said. "I think by this weekend, it's going to be wrapped up."

Besides Nebraska, no other candidates are imminent for the Big Ten, which could stay put with 12 members, the source said.

Meanwhile, a University of Missouri curator said Thursday that the school has not been invited to join the Big Ten Conference, an acknowledgment made as the school's conference

fights for its survival.

Curator Warren Erdman told The Associated Press that Missouri had not been asked to join the Big Ten. Erdman noted that he had been out of state the past week but wasn't aware of any change in the situation. He said the curators did not discuss conference affiliation during a closed-door morning meeting.

"Anything could happen, but we're working hard to stay together," said Missouri chancellor Brady Deaton, who added that he had called Texas president William Powers to discuss the conference's future after learning of Colorado's exodus.

Judy Haggard, chairwoman of the Missouri governing board, suggested that Missouri's fate remains unclear.

"It's too soon to say," she said before the closed meeting. "We're going to be getting a lot of information these next two days."

The Mountain West Conference, which also reportedly was interested in Colorado, said it is monitoring the "developments" in conference expansion. Boise State of the Western Athletic Conference, is also a candidate to join the Mountain West if it expands.

"We remain in communication with key parties and are continuing to implement our internal strategies. These deliberations are ongoing and will be remain confidential until the appropriate time," commissioner Craig Thompson said in a statement.

Information from ESPN's Joe Schad and Chris Mortensen, ESPN.com's Mark Schlabach, Adam Rittenberg and The Associated Press was used in this report.
====================
December 12, 2017

Steve Leigh reports on protests against planned government changes to regulations that will let large corporations have even more control of the internet.

THOUSANDS OF people rallied in hundreds of cities across the country on December 7 to demand that Congress stop the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) plan to kill network neutrality.

The repeal of net neutrality would be a financial boon for large internet service providers and potentially restrict access and increase costs for millions of users. As Ryan de Laureal explained at SocialistWorker.org, the currently existing net neutrality provision, known as the "Open Internet Order":

declared the internet to be a public utility and mandated that ISPs treat all internet traffic equally. This prevented businesses from censoring web sites and content; creating tiered service where users must pay more for internet "fast lanes"; slowing down (or "throttling") content from competitors; or charging customers extra fees for streaming, downloading or other online activities.

The FCC has slated a vote on net neutrality for December 14. Already, 23 million people have sent comments on the issue, with at least 60 percent of those in favor of net neutrality. More than 840,000 calls in support of net neutrality have been made through the Battle for the Net campaign website since Thanksgiving alone.

Defenders of net neutrality protest FCC Chair Ajit Pai and telecom lobbyists in Washington, D.C. (Stephen Melkisethian | flickr)

Tim Karr, senior director of strategy for Free Press, an advocacy group involved in the Battle for the Net campaign reported that net neutrality supporters protested outside 700 Verizon stores on December 7, calling attention to the fact that FCC Chair Ajit Pai is a former Verizon lawyer. Protests ranged from 350 people in New York City to a couple dozen in Souix Falls, South Dakota.

"Access to a free and fair internet is necessary for a functioning democracy," Lauren Gruber, a writer for a branding agency who joined the New York protest told the Associated Press. If the net-neutrality rules are repealed, she said, "it's just another showcase of oligarchy upon America."

In Seattle, more than 100 people rallied and marched. The first stop was a picket at a Verizon store. After a speak-out, protesters marched to AT&T and Comcast locations in the downtown area, drawing attention to other corporate supporters of the repeal of net neutrality. Along the way, the march received support from passersby and drivers.

Protesters raised issues beyond just net neutrality. "When the internet is under attack, what do we do? Stand up, fight back!" they chanted, before raising similar chants in defense of women's rights, Black lives, immigrants and Muslims. Speakers stressed that democracy needs an open internet.

In Minneapolis, some 60 people rallied outside a Verizon store, including members of Team Internet, Green Party candidate for Senate Paula Overby and concerned individuals.

Activists gave speeches on the need for public internet as a utility, and spoke about how they depend on the internet for their work, Others mentions horrible state of the internet in the U.S. compared to other countries in spite of our wealth and noted how the internet allowed them to become politically active.

The fight for an open internet will go on, no matter how the FCC votes on December 14. If the FCC overturns net neutrality, the struggle will go to Congress, where net neutrality supporters are vowing to continue the fight.

Democratic politicians will attempt to use this as a campaign issue in 2018, as they will with the Republican tax plan and the attempted overturn of Obamacare. However, there is no guarantee that, even if the Democrats win control of Congress in 2018, they will repeal the Republican plans.

We need to do everything we can to fight for net neutrality now and keep the pressure on as long as needed, no matter who wins in 2018.
====================
Apple CEO Tim Cook reportedly urged President Trump to show more compassion on immigration issues while attending a tech meeting at the White House on Monday.

Cook brought up the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy, a controversial Obama-era program that allows children brought to the country illegally to stay in the U.S., according to The New York Times’s Maggie Haberman.

NEWS - Tim Cook told POTUS that the administration needed to show more heart on immigration issues, mentioned DACA, at tech CEO meeting 1/ — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) June 20, 2017

2/ Cook said tech employees are nervous and while they don't think the administration's intent is to make them feel targeted, they need ... — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) June 20, 2017

Cook has vocally spoken out about the economic value and merits immigrants add to the American economy, contrasting largely with Trump and some of his senior adviser’s views that immigrants are stealing jobs from Americans and hurting the U.S. economy.

Trump voiced support for "comprehensive" immigration reform, according to Haberman.

3/ a clear signal. POTUS replied that what's needed is "comprehensive" immigration reform. No comment from Apple or White House so far. — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) June 20, 2017

While it is unclear what the president meant, Haberman pointed out that this is the second time Trump has left someone feeling like he will pursue a policy similar to one pushed by Jeb Bush, a former GOP presidential rival.

4/ But this is second time in five mos that POTUS has left someone with impression in closed mtg that he favored the type of bill Jeb backed — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) June 20, 2017

CEOs and business experts attended meetings at the White House as part of "technology week" in an effort to modernize the government’s information technology systems.
====================
A few years ago, Mary Finucane started noticing changes in the way her 3-year-old daughter played. The toddler had stopped running and jumping, and insisted on wearing only dresses. She sat on the front step quietly – waiting, she said, for her prince. She seemed less imaginative, less spunky, less interested in the world.

Ms. Finucane believes the shift began when Caoimhe (pronounced Keeva) discovered the Disney Princesses, that omnipresent, pastel packaged franchise of slender-waisted fairy-tale heroines. When Finucane mentioned her suspicions to other parents, they mostly shrugged.

"Everyone seemed to think it was inevitable," Finucane says. "You know, it was Disney Princesses from [ages] 2 to 5, then Hannah Montana, then 'High School Musical.' I thought it was so strange that these were the new trajectories of female childhood."

She decided to research the princess phenomenon, and what she found worried her. She came to believe that the $4 billion Disney Princess empire was the first step down a path to scarier challenges, from self-objectification to cyberbullying to unhealthy body images. Finucane, who has a background in play therapy, started a blog – "Disney Princess Recovery: Bringing Sexy Back for a Full Refund" – to chronicle her efforts to break the grip of Cinderella, Belle, Ariel, et al. on her household.

Within months she had thousands of followers.

"It was validating, in a sense, that a lot of parents were experiencing it," she says. "It was this big force entering our lives so early, with such strength. It concerned me for what was down the road."

Finucane's theory about Disney Princesses is by no means universal. Many parents and commentators defend Happily Ever After against what some critics call a rising "feminist attack," and credit the comely ladies with teaching values such as kindness, reading, love of animals, and perseverance.

If there's any doubt of the controversy surrounding the subject, journalist Peggy Orenstein mined a whole book ("Cinderella Ate My Daughter") out of the firestorm she sparked in 2006 with a New York Times essay ("What's Wrong With Cinderella?").

Disney, for its part, repeated to the Monitor its standard statement on the topic: "For 75 years, millions of little girls and their parents around the world have adored and embraced the diverse characters and rich stories featuring our Disney princesses.... [L]ittle girls experience the fantasy and imagination provided by these stories as a normal part of their childhood development."

And yet, the Finucane and Orenstein critique does resonate with many familiar with modern American girlhood as "hot" replaces pretty in pink, and getting the prince takes on a more ominous tone. Parents and educators regularly tell re-searchers that they are unable to control the growing onslaught of social messages shaping their daughters and students.

"Parents are having a really hard time dealing with it," says Diane Levin, an early childhood specialist at Wheelock College in Boston who recently co-wrote the book "So Sexy So Soon." "They say that things they used to do aren't working; they say they're losing control of what happens to their girls at younger and younger ages."

It only takes a glance at some recent studies to understand why parents are uneasy:

•A University of Central Florida poll found that 50 percent of 3-to-6-year-old girls worry that they are fat.

•One-quarter of 14-to-17-year-olds of both sexes polled by The Associated Press and MTV in 2009 reported either sending naked pictures of themselves or receiving naked pictures of someone else.

•The marketing group NPD Fashionworld reported in 2003 that more than $1.6 million is spent annually on thong underwear for 7-to-12-year-olds.

•Children often come across Internet pornography unintentionally: University of New Hampshire researchers found in 2005 that one-third of Internet users ages 10 to 17 were exposed to unwanted sexual material, and a London School of Economics study in 2004 found that 60 percent of children who use the Internet regularly come into contact with pornography.

And on, and on. It's enough, really, to alarm the most relaxed parent.

But as Professor Levin, Finucane, and Orenstein show, there is another trend today, too – one that gets far less press, but is much more hopeful.

Trying to make a safer, healthier environment for girls, an ever-stronger group of educators, parents, institutions, and girls themselves are pushing back against growing marketing pressure, new cyberchallenges, and sexualization, which the American Psychological Association (APA) defines in part as the inappropriate imposition of sexuality on children.

Many are trying to intervene when girls are younger, like Finucane, who doesn't advocate banning the princesses but taking on the ways that they narrow girls' play (advocating more color choices, suggesting alternative story plotlines). Some tap into the insight and abilities of older girls – with mentoring, for example. Still others take their concerns into the public sphere, lobbying politicians and executives for systemic change such as restricting sexualized advertising targeting girls.

Together, they offer some insights for how, as Finucane says, to bring sexy back for a refund.

Soccer heading makes a bad hair day

The first step, some say, is to understand why any of this matters.

By many measures, girls are not doing badly. According to the Washington-based Center on Education Policy, high school girls perform as well as boys on math and science tests and do better than their male peers in reading. Three women now graduate from college for every 2 men. Far more women play sports, which is linked to better body image, lower teen pregnancy rates, and higher scholastic performance.

And opportunities for girls today are much broader than 50 years ago when, for example, schools didn't even allow girls to wear pants or to raise and lower the flag, notes Stephanie Coontz, co-chair of the nonprofit Council on Contemporary Families. "It is important to keep all of this in perspective," she says.

Still, there are signs of erosion of the progress in gender equity. Take athletics.

"Girls are participating in sports at a much increased level in grade school," says Sharon Lamb, a professor of education and mental health at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. But, she adds, they start to drop out of sports at the middle school level when they start to believe that sports are unfeminine and unsexy.

The Women's Sports Foundation found that 6 girls drop out of sports for every 1 boy by the end of high school, and a recent Girl Scout study found that 23 percent of girls between the ages of 11 and 17 do not play sports because they do not think their bodies look good doing so.

And looking good, Ms. Lamb says, is increasingly tied to what it means to play. Star female athletes regularly pose naked or seminaked for men's magazines; girls see cheerleaders (with increasingly sexualized routines) on TV far more than they see female basketball players or other athletes.

The effects are felt in academia as well. Earlier this year, a Princeton University study found a growing leadership gap among male and female undergraduates. Nannerl Keohane, who chaired the Princeton steering committee, wrote in an e-mail interview that "the climate was different in the late 1990s and the past decade." And she linked the findings to shifts in popular culture such as "the receding of second-wave feminist excitement and commitment, a backlash in some quarters, a re-orientation of young women's expectations based on what they had seen of their mothers' generation, a profound reorientation of popular culture which now glorifies sexy babes consistently, rather than sometimes showing an accomplished woman without foregrounding her sexuality."

This "sexy babes" trend is a big one.

"For young women, what has replaced the feminine mystique is the hottie mystique," Ms. Coontz says. "Girls no longer feel that there is anything they must not do or cannot do because they're female, but they hold increasingly strong beliefs that if you are going to attempt these other things, you need to look and be sexually hot."

In television shows, for instance, women are represented in far more diverse roles – they are lawyers, doctors, politicians. But they are always sexy. A woman might run for high political office, but there is almost always analysis about whether she is sexy, too.

In 2010, the APA released a report on the sexualization of girls, which it described as portraying a girl's value as coming primarily from her sexual appeal. It found increased sexualization in magazines, by marketers, in music lyrics, and on television – a phenomenon that includes "harm to the sexualized individuals themselves, to their interpersonal relationships, and to society."

Sexualization, it reported, leads to lower cognitive performance and greater body dissatisfaction. One study cited by the report, for instance, compared the ability of college-age women to solve math problems while trying on a sweater (alone in a dressing room) with that of those trying on swimsuits. Sweater wearers far outperformed the scantily dressed.

Research also connects sexualization to eating disorders, depression, and physical health problems. Even those young women – and experts say there are growing numbers of them – who claim that it is empowering to be a sex object often suffer the ill effects of sexualization.

"The sexualization of girls may not only reflect sexist attitudes, a society tolerant of sexual violence, and the exploitation of girls and women but may also contribute to these phenomena," the APA said.

Objectifying women is not new, of course.

"What's different is just the sheer amount of messaging that girls are getting, and the effective way that these images are used to market to younger and younger girls," says Lyn Mikel Brown, an education professor at Colby College in Waterville, Maine. "They're getting it relentlessly. And in this busy world it's somehow harder for parents to stop and question it. It's like fish in water – it's the water. It's in the air. It's easy for it to get by us."

Help girls to see the problem

So what to do? To start, girls can become media critics, says Professor Brown's high school-age daughter, Maya Brown. The younger Brown serves on the Girls' Advisory Board of Hardy Girls Healthy Women, an organization based in Maine that develops girl-friendly school curricula and runs a variety of programs for girls.

"There are so many images of girls, and they are always objectifying – it's hard to make that go away," Maya says. "What you really need is for the girls to be able to see it."

She knows this firsthand. Her mother would regularly pause television shows or movies to talk about female stereotypes; when she read to Maya, she would often change the plotlines to make the female characters more important. (It was only when Maya got older that she realized that Harry Potter was far more active than Hermione.)

"It would get kind of annoying," Maya, now 16, says with a laugh. "When we were watching a movie and she'd pause it and say, 'You know, this isn't a good representation,' I'd be like, 'Yeah, yeah, yeah, I caught that. Can we watch our show now?' "

Professor Brown had many opportunities to intervene. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the percentage of television shows with sexual content – from characters talking about their sexual exploits to actual intercourse – increased from 54 percent in 1998 to 70 percent in 2005.

In her book, Levin says that the numbers would be even higher if advertisements were included. And reality television, which has ballooned during the past decade, is particularly sexualizing. Scholars point out that the most popular reality shows either have harem-style plots, with many women competing to please one man, or physical-improvement goals.

Young girls get similarly sexualizing messages in their own movies and television shows. The Geena Davis Institute on Gender and Media found recently that fewer than 1 in 3 speaking characters (animal or human) in G-rated family films are female, and even animated female characters tend to wear sexualized attire: Disney's Jasmine, for instance, has a sultry off-the-shoulder look, while even Miss Piggy shows cleavage.

Co-opting the images

Given this backdrop, many child development experts say the best way to handle the media onslaught for younger girls is for parents to simply opt out.

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends no screen time – television, movies, and Internet – for infants under 2 years of age; for older children, the AAP suggests only one to two hours a day. This would be a significant change for most American families. In 2003, the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 36 percent of children under 6 live in a house where the TV is on all or almost all of the time; 43 percent of children ages 4 to 6 have a TV in their bedroom. In 2010 the foundation reported that, on average, children ages 8 to 18 consume 10 hours, 45 minutes' worth of screen media content a day.

Even if parents limited TV and movies, though, the sexualization of women would still get through on the radio, in magazines at grocery store checkout lines, on billboards, and in schools, not to mention on the all-powerful Internet. Those images, as in television, have become far more sexualized.

In one recent study, University of Buffalo sociologists Erin Hatton and Mary Nell Trautne examined the covers of Rolling Stone magazine between 1967 and 2009. They found a "dramatic increase in hypersexualized images of women," to the point that by 2009, nearly every woman to grace the magazine's cover was conveyed in a blatantly sexual way, as compared with 17 percent of the men. (Examples include a tousled-haired Jennifer Aniston lying naked on a bed, or a topless Janet Jackson with an unseen man's hands covering her breasts.)

With no way to get away from the sexualized images, Maya says, it's better to recognize and co-opt them.

She and other young women helped develop the website poweredbygirl.org on which girls blog, comment, and share ideas about female sexualization in the media. The site includes an app that lets users graffiti advertisements and then post the altered images – one recent post, for instance, takes a Zappos magazine advertisement showing a naked woman covered only by the caption "more than shoes!" and adds, "Yet no creativity" to the slogan.

"Once it's brought to light in a satirical way, it loses its power," says Jackie Dupont, the programs director at Hardy Girls Healthy Women. "The ridiculousness about what the advertisements are trying to say about women becomes more apparent."

Sexy's not about sex, it's about shopping

Media images, though, are only a part of the sexualization problem. More invasive, Levin and others say, is marketing.

Since the deregulation movement of the 1980s, the federal government has lost most oversight of advertising to children. This has encouraged marketers to become increasingly brazen, says Levin. Marketers are motivated to use the sexualization of women to attract little girls, or violence to attract little boys, because developmentally children are drawn to things they don't understand, or find unnerving, Levin says.

In this context, she says, sexy is not about sex, but about shopping. If girls can be convinced to equate "sexy" with popularity and girlness itself, and if "sexy" requires the right clothes, makeup, hairdo, accessories, and shoes, then marketers have a new bunch of consumers.

"Age compression," the phenomenon of younger children adopting patterns once reserved for older youths, helps with sales. If girls start wearing lip gloss when they are 6 years old (as almost half of them do, according to Experian Simmons national consumer research) and mascara when they are 8 (the percentage of 8-to-12-year-olds wearing mascara doubled between 2007 and 2009, to almost 1 in 5, according to market research from the NPD Group), then it's clearly better for cosmetic companies. This is also why, Levin speculates, thong underwear is now sold to 7-year-olds, and padded bras show up on the racks for 5-year-olds.

Meanwhile, there are deepening gender divisions in toys, clothing, and play activities. Orenstein explores in "Cinderella Ate My Daughter" how the color pink has become increasingly ubiquitous to the point where many young girls police each other with a pink radar – if that tricycle, for instance, isn't pink, well then, you shouldn't be riding it.

Brown points out in her book that there is no pink equivalent for boys. Although the color blue, sports equipment, and fire engines grace much of their décor, boys still have far more options of how to define themselves.

"In unprecedented levels, girls are being presented with a very narrow image of girlhood," Brown says.

One of the best ways to keep girls from falling into rigid gender roles is to broaden their horizons.

"If we are bombarded with thousands of images a day that give the illusion of choice, but are in fact really simplistic and repetitive, it's important to not just say girls can do anything, but to give them the actual experience," said Ms. Dupont from Hardy Girls Healthy Women, where the Adventure Girls program for second- to sixth-graders connects girls with women who have excelled in nontraditional fields, from construction and rugby to chemistry and dog-sledding.

This is what Finucane tried to do with her daughter. She did not want to crush Caoimhe's fantasies, but she also wanted her to see more of the possibilities open to girls. So although Caoimhe wanted to read only Disney Princess books – titles such as "Cinderella: My Perfect Wedding" – Finucane insisted on sharing stories about Amelia Earhart and other powerful women. She bought native American dress-up clothes and a Princess Presto outfit to go with the frothy pink Disney gowns.

Trying to stay one step ahead

Finucane says that Caoimhe, now 5, is pretty much free of the princess obsession. These days she is entranced by "James and the Giant Peach" and "The Wizard of Oz."

"I try to stay maybe one step ahead," Finucane says. "The grip they had is lost. She's still into characters and theatrical production, but she no longer believes that you can't leap if you're a princess, or female."

Parents' involvement is key, Levin says, but they do not have to act alone. Over the past few years, a growing group of advocacy organizations have formed to help fight against marketing pressure and sexualization.

Levin and others have campaigned for new regulations on how advertisers can approach children; groups such as truechild.org and Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood have also pushed for marketing restrictions and have held summits about countering the consumer culture and sexualization. The organization TRUCE – Teachers Resisting Unhealthy Children's Entertainment – publishes media and play guides in which they review toys, check marketers' claims, and recommend age-appropriate activities. Recently, actress Geena Davis joined Sen. Kay Hagan (D) of North Carolina and Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D) of Wisconsin to lobby for a bill that would support efforts to improve the image of women and girls in the media.

Girls themselves have joined different advocacy efforts, including organizing and participating in the SPARK (Sexualization Protest: Action, Resistance, Knowledge) Summit in New York City, a gathering of girls and adults who hold forums on media awareness, sexuality, and fighting stereotypes.

Schools can also share the burden. Catherine Steiner-Adair, a therapist and educational consultant, has worked with school systems across the country for 30 years to develop curriculum that will increase social and emotional intelligence among boys and girls. She says that programs where girls are encouraged to create and then delve into their own projects are often successful.

"Girls discover what it means to take their own interests seriously and to pursue them deeply and vigorously," she says.

She says that schools that can start focusing on these issues earliest have the best success. In a four-year study published in 2007 by the Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning, researchers found that students who participate in these sorts of programs show more empathy, self-confidence, and more academic success than their peers without social-emotional curriculum.

"Given today's culture and the access people have and the lack of boundaries between home and school and between people and technology, you have to begin this work in first grade," she says. "The schools that are doing it in first grade are very different cultures – they're kinder, they're more respectful, they're less bullying."

Girls stuck in the social-feedback loop

Ms. Steiner-Adair's point about technology is the elephant in the chat room.

In any conversation about the sexualization of girls, the Internet is always mentioned as a huge new challenge. Not only does the Web allow easy – and often unwanted – access to sexual images (in terms of numbers of websites and views, porn is king of the Web), it offers a social-feedback loop that is heavy on appearance and superficiality, and low on values that scholars say might undermine sexualization, such as intelligence and compassion.

Girls – and boys – encourage each other to embrace sexualization. Teens who post sexy pictures of themselves on Facebook, for instance, are rewarded with encouraging comments. Educator and author Rachel Simmons, who recently rereleased "Odd Girl Out," her book about girl aggression, with new chapters on the Internet, tells of a 13-year-old who posted a photo of herself in tight leggings, her behind lifted toward the camera.

"She posts it on Facebook and gets 10 comments underneath it telling her how great her butt looks," Ms. Simmons says.

"Girls are using social media to get feedback in areas that they've been told by the culture that they need to express or work on. That's not girls being stupid.... Many girls post or send provocative images because they're growing up in a culture that places a lot of value in their sexuality."

The answer is not for parents to cancel the Wi-Fi, Simmons and others say. There are many ways that girls can use the Internet and social media for good. But the technology does require monitoring – and self-evaluation.

It's hard to criticize a girl for delving into social media, for instance, when her parents are constantly checking their own iPhones.

"We can't sit there and say, 'Oh, the kids are so messed up,' " she says. "We have to look at ourselves."
====================
STOCKTON (CBS13) – It’s not exactly how you expect a state of the city address to go, a mayor pulling out his own warrior gear to make his point.

“Who’s willing to fight for Stockton?” asked Mayor Anthony Silva.

The unusual address came with jokes and jabs but had a serious message for the city.

“Who’s willing? If you are willing, stand up and show me you are willing to fight for the city,” said Silva.

After his almost hour-long speech, Silva pulled out armor with a helmet and mace while asking the crowd to go to war for the broke and crime-ridden city.

It was a dramatic finish to the new mayor’s first ever state of the city address.

“I have a question for you. Did all of you leave your egos at the door or did some of you sneak them in?” said Silva.

That was the theme of the speech: Leave your ego at the door.

“If ever a time to stop rooting for your new mayor to fail, the time is now,” said Silva.

In addition to addressing city council dynamics and the rocky relationship between himself and City Manager Bob Deis, the mayor discussed his proposal to raise taxes and hire new police officers.

Silva says the plan could fund the city’s crime fighting proposal, the Marshall Plan.

“By the way — news flash — the Marshal Plan also includes cops, a lot more cops. Stockton safe streets can be the funding for the Marshall Plan’s recommendation,” he said.

CBS13 tried getting answers from Deis — who publicly opposes the mayor’s plan — but he refused to speak with us.

All but one member of the city council members attended the event.

“We need to stop the drama. Our town needs us to stand up and lead, rise above,” said Councilmember Paul Canepa.
====================
Hong Kong (CNN) Two mechanics have been arrested after an escalator packed with people in a Hong Kong shopping mall suddenly went into reverse.

Police say the suspects may have tampered with the machine's parts after the Saturday incident, which sent shoppers tumbling.

Eighteen people were injured when the escalator at Mong Kok's Langham Place switched direction from up to down. One man suffered a head injury and was in serious condition, according to CNN affiliate CCTV.

The mechanics, aged 22 and 52, are facing charges of obstruction of justice, police said. Both have been released on bail and must report back to police in mid-April.

"The arrest of our mechanics was a surprise," Ian Fok, a spokesman for the Otis Elevator Company, which employs the two men, said in a statement.

Read More
====================
I hope this one western trend that some Koreans will not think is cool to take up:

Stations with graffiti problems include Jamsil, Gangnam, Konkuk University, Hapjeong, and Sangsu.

There’s a history to Korea’s subway graffiti problem. In May 2016, a subway car idled in a garage in Incheon was found with two drawings spraypainted on it.

In May 2015, a Latvian graffiti artist and three others were arrested for defacing Seoul Metro subway cars. In February 2015, a group of four Australians fled Korea after covering subway cars in Wangsimni, Anam, and Sinnonhyeon stations in graffiti.

The Korea Railway Police feared that foreign graffiti artists were targeting its cars – and circulating information on how to penetrate certain stations with lax security.

Current law states that graffiti corresponds to property damage described in Article 336 of the criminal code. Guilty parties can be imprisoned for a maximum of three years or fined up to 7 million won ($6,290).

Additional punishment is possible if multiple people were involved, according to the Law on Punishment of Violent Acts.

However, it is not easy to track down graffiti aficionados, since they work stealthily.

“We have found through CCTV footage that there was one culprit involved, but it is difficult to detect the identity of the suspect,” said a police official in charge of a recent graffiti case at Jamsil Station on subway line No. 2. “The person in question committed the crime and fled within a minute. Obscure scribbles 30 cm (1 foot) wide and 50 cm (1.6 feet) tall were written in marker on the walls of a passageway.

“Foreign culprits are more difficult to arrest since many have left the nation when investigations have started,” said Kim Hyeon-mo, an investigator of the Korea Railway Police. [Joong Ang Ilbo]
====================
Senators have amended the government's budget bill to remove automatic tax increases on alcohol, defying the Liberal government's request to pass the legislation intact.

The changes were made Tuesday afternoon by members of the Senate national finance committee. Further amendments to the budget bill are possible as it moves to third reading. The full Senate voted 46-32 late Tuesday to approve the committee's amendments.

If the Senate passes the bill at third reading with amendments, the legislation will need to go back to the House of Commons. The House could then choose to accept or reject the changes. If the House rejects the changes, the Senate would then vote on whether to insist on its amendments or defer to the elected chamber.

Story continues below advertisement

The development puts the Liberal government's pledge of a more independent and effective Senate up against its desire to pass its budget and implement key parts of its agenda before the House of Commons breaks for summer. "We were not surprised, but we're not happy," said Independent Senator Diane Bellemare, one of three Senators who act as representatives of the government in the Senate. "We would like the budget to pass as it is because the government thinks that what they are doing is good."

The wide-ranging omnibus budget bill, C-44, includes a section that would increase the excise duty rates on alcohol products by 2 per cent and automatically adjust the rates in line with inflation on April 1 of each year, beginning in 2018.

The second part of the tax change, which has become known by critics as an automatic escalator, was strongly opposed by Canada's beer, wine and spirit makers. Several senators criticized the escalator, with one Liberal senator saying that the government should "have the guts" to request a tax hike every year if it wishes to increase taxes.

Both Finance Minister Bill Morneau and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made public appeals last week urging the Senate to pass the budget bill intact.

"It's important to understand that the House of Commons has the authority when it comes to budgetary matters," Mr. Trudeau said at a news conference last week.

Neither Mr. Morneau nor Government House Leader Bardish Chagger would stop to comment on the Senate Tuesday. The House of Commons is scheduled to rise for its summer recess on Friday.

In a committee appearance last week, Mr. Morneau dismissed the concerns.

Story continues below advertisement

Story continues below advertisement

He said the clause should not be referred to as an escalator, because it would actually keep alcohol taxes constant in real dollars by adjusting to inflation.

The government says this year's increase represents less than 1 cent a bottle of wine and 7 cents for a bottle of spirits and the change will have a "negligible" impact on the industry.

Liberal Senate Leader Joseph Day said he expects other amendments will be proposed when the bill is debated at report stage and third reading in the Senate. Mr. Day said that while it is unusual for the Senate to amend taxation provisions of a budget bill, senators are expressing their opposition to omnibus budget bills that include new proposed laws that should be introduced separately.

"We've got to show some general dissatisfaction with this process," he said.

"I've been warning for 10 years that this is coming. I've been telling the government to stop doing this. The government promised during their election campaign that they wouldn't be doing these omnibus bills and putting everything in there. … It's too much and it's not necessary."

On Monday evening, the Senate voted to defeat a motion by Independent Senator André Pratte that would have divided the bill in a way that removed a section called the Canada Infrastructure Bank Act.

Story continues below advertisement

The provisions would create a $35-billion infrastructure bank, which Mr. Pratte said should be dealt with on their own.

The motion was narrowly defeated Monday in a 38-38 tie vote, with one abstention.

No amendments related to the infrastructure bank were proposed Tuesday at committee.

It is not clear what type of amendments may be proposed, if any, when the Senate resumes its debate on the budget bill.

Liberal MP Wayne Easter, who chairs the House finance committee that studied the bill and made amendments, said the House is unlikely to accept any changes from the Senate on the budget bill.

However, he said the pushback in the Senate over the so-called escalator tax should force the government to look more closely at the issue.

Story continues below advertisement

"There's a message to the government here, I would submit," he said.

"We have to look at that. Is that the right principle in the future? In terms of this budget, I think it has to go ahead the way it was originally proposed in the House."
====================
A conservative nonprofit is adding to the controversy surrounding the Arizona Corporation Commission Tuesday, calling for the ouster of its chair, Susan Bitter Smith, over conflict of interest claims.

The Public Integrity Alliance is calling for both the Arizona Secretary of State’s Office and the Clean Election Commission to investigate conflict of interest complaints against Bitter Smith.

The request comes just weeks after a formal complaint was filed with the Arizona Attorney General’s Office by attorney Tom Ryan, calling for Bitter Smith to be removed from office because of her role as a lobbyist for the telecommunications industry that she regulates as chair of the Commission.

“It is hard to find anyone from any faction of Arizona’s political environment who is aware of this situation but doesn’t think Bitter Smith has a serious conflict of interest,” said Tyler Montague, President of the Public Integrity Alliance in a press release.

“We are going to keep bringing this to the attention of regulators and the general public until action is taken to solve this problem,” he said. “The people of Arizona deserve corporation commissioners free of conflicts of interest.”

The complaint claims that Bitter Smith’s role as a registered lobbyist for Cox Communications and her role as the Executive Director of a telecom trade group during and after her election to the Commission violate state conflict of interest laws.

The Arizona Corporation Commission is an elected five-member commission that regulates water, gas, power and other companies that hold monopolies in the state, including cable companies like Cox Communications.

The complaint says that Bitter Smith likely has a pecuniary interest in not only Cox but other members of the telecom trade group she regulates.

“In both instances, Chairman Bitter Smith appears to have an unseemly interest in Cox and the members of the [telecom trade group],” the complaint says.

Bitter Smith told ABC15 today that this is "just a rehash of the specious complaint from Tom Ryan."

She has said that she lobbies for the cable arm of Cox, not the telephone arm, which is regulated by the Commission.

The Public Integrity Alliance is asking for the Secretary of State’s office to refer the matter to the Arizona Solicitor General’s office and the Clean Elections Commission to investigate the issue and take action, if warranted.

This is the latest in a series of controversies with the Corporation Commission.

Last week, two former Corporation Commissioners filed a motion to stop Commissioners Doug Little and Tom Forese from ruling in Arizona Public Service’s rooftop solar net metering case because of accusations they benefitted from the company’s dark money donations during the 2014 election.

And, Commissioner Bob Stump is under investigation by the Arizona Attorney General’s Office because of accusations that he exchanged text messages with APS executives during the last election.
====================
From WikiLeaks

The secret bibles of Scientology, including notes in the founder L. Ron. Hubbard's own handwriting

JASON SAFOUTIN (Wikinews)

March 26, 2008, updatedApril 13, 2008

Wikinews has obtained Operating Thetan (OT) documents of the Church of Scientology which were leaked via Wikileaks. Although some portions of the manual have been leaked previously, this is believed to be the first time the full unedited version has become publicly available.

The 612-page manual for Scientologists written by L. Ron Hubbard contains instructions for the eight different Operating Thetan levels including 'clear' and OT8.

Most of the manual is typed from a computer, while the packet contains some hand written notes by Hubbard himself who also signed them. The manual also contains letters by Hubbard to individuals who have passed the according levels.

"A great many phenomena (strange things) can happen while doing these drills, if they are done honestly," Hubbard writes in regards to 'OT1.' Hubbard then goes on to explain in hand written notes, the 'drills' one must do in order to become 'OT1':

"One: Walk around and counts bodies until you have a cognition. Make a report saying how many you counted and your cognition. Two: Note several large and small female bodies until you have a cognition. Note it down. Three: Note several large and several small male bodies until you have a cognition. Note it down. Four: Final a tight packed crowd of people. Write it as a crowd and then as individuals until you have a cognition. Note it down. Do step over until you do."

Hubbard then goes on to explain OT2, but before he does so, he tells the Churches how to keep Scientology working. One way is to not divulge information on their "technology." Doing so, says Hubbard, would result in "the complete destruction of all our work."

"On the other hand there have been thousands and thousands of suggestions and writings which, if accepted and acted upon, would have resulted in the complete destruction of all our work. Our technology has not been discovered by a group. True, if the group had not supported me in many ways, I could not have discovered it either. But it remains that if in its formative stages it was not discovered by a group, then group efforts, one can safely assume, will not add to it or successfully alter it in the future," states Hubbard in a confidential letter dated February 7, 1965.

Hubbard also goes on to say that "man has never before evolved workable mental technology and emphasizing it is the vicious technology he did evolve—psychiatry, psychology, surgery, shock treatment, whips, duress, punishment, etc., ad infinitum." Hubbard also says that "war, famine, agony and disease has been the lot of Man" and that Man "has been what has made Earth a Hell—and if you were looking for Hell and found Earth, it would certainly serve."

Hubbard calls those 'men' "SP Body Thetans" or those who "are out of valance" and who are "stuck to another thetan or body but is not in control" with Scientology. Some he says are even "psychotic, serve faces and have fixed ideas" which "inhibits recovery." Thetan is derived from the Greek word "Theta" which means "thought or life."

"An individual being such as a man is a thetan, he is not a body and he does not think because he has no brain," states Hubbard.

It is not until 'OT3' when you learn the true beginning of Scientology. In Hubbard's own hand written notes, he begins to describe a series of "76 planets [orbiting] around larger stars founded 95,000,000 years ago" which he says "are visible from here [Earth]."

From those planets, which were over populated by "about 250 million per planet," came a "head of the Galactic Federation" named Xenu who solved the overpopulation by sending mass amounts of his people to Earth somewhere between "75,000,000 and 4 qadrillion [Sic] years ago." Hubbard says that he brought them to Earth and dropped them off inside volcanoes on an island he describes as Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean. Xenu then captured the ones who escaped after 36 days and exploded the remaining individuals with a hydrogen bomb. Xenu was later "captured after six years of battle" and Earth had since become a "desert."

It is also said at this level, an implant, in what Hubbard calls an "engram" will be given in which the individual can "see pictures." However these pictures are not to be "stuck" or permanent.

At 'OT4' individuals are allegedly rid of illegal and legal drugs. Documents state that addicts are not treated with drugs, but simply not given anything.

"As drugs and drug incidents have been so common on the whole track, to simply generally ask for drugs or drug incidents when dealing with BTs and clusters, could cause a total restim," states the document which then says that individuals are made to wait out the effects of the drugs. Another process used to try and stop drug use is to "take any previously given Drug somatic items, or newly list any additional items connected with reading drugs, medicines, etc., and assess for reading somatic item." Hubbard insists that these methods are proven effective.

'OT5' is when individuals learn about the "physical universe, not the laws of physical scientists, but the basic considerations about Matter, Energy, Space and Time," states Hubbard.

At 'OT6' you allegedly learn telepathy and 'OT7'is the "rehabilitation of ability to project intention."

The final level, 'OT8', you are to "have full certainty and, therefore, perception on all" of your issues. According to Hubbard, the 'OT8' manuals are supposed to stay aboard the Free Winds Scientology ship which has heavy security because nothing is supposed to leave the ship. Despite that, Hubbard himself claims to have smuggled out his own 'OT8' instructions for the "elite" Scientologists.

"I am breaking security as I disagree that this should only be released to an elite in Scientology. I do, however, ask it not be released to psyches or 'squirrels' or anyone who will break the Independent Security Network and allow it to get back to the Church of Scientology. It would be best if they do not find out that we have it. Please treat this data responsibly. It is the key to the only truth possible," said Hubbard in regards to his 'OT8' instructions.

Wikileaks previously leaked documents relating to the Church of Scientology's division the Office of Special Affairs. The 208-page document released March 9th details Scientology's involvement in black propaganda according to its "Fair Game" practices.

Also appears as: http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Church_of_Scientology%27s_%27Operating_Thetan%27_documents_leaked_online

S ee




====================
Charlottesville, Virginia (CNN) One person was killed and 19 were hurt when a speeding car slammed into a throng of counterprotesters in Charlottesville, where a "Unite the Right" rally of white nationalist and other right-wing groups had been scheduled to take place, the city tweeted on its verified account.

A 32-year-old woman was killed while walking across the street, Charlottesville Police Chief Al Thomas said. Police were still in the process of notifying her family.

Two Virginia State Patrol troopers were killed in a helicopter crash while "assisting public safety resources with the ongoing situation in Charlottesville," the agency said in a news release. The pilot, Lt. H. Jay Cullen, 48, and Trooper Berke M.M. Bates, who would have turned 41 on Sunday, died in the crash.

Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe had a pointed message for the right-wing groups that flocked to Charlottesville on Saturday: "Go home. ... You are not wanted in this great commonwealth. Shame on you."

In addition to the one death and 19 injuries in the car-ramming incident, the city said there were at least 15 other injuries associated with the scheduled rally.

Federal authorities said a civil rights investigation into the deadly crash was opened hours after it happened.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions said U.S. Attorney Rick Mountcastle is leading the investigation and has the full support of the Deparment of Justice.

"The violence and deaths in Charlottesville strike at the heart of American law and justice. When such actions arise from racial bigotry and hatred, they betray our core values and cannot be tolerated," Sessions said in a statement. "Justice will prevail."

"The FBI will collect all available facts and evidence, and as this is an ongoing investigation we are not able to comment further at this time," said a statement from the Richmond, Virginia FBI field office.

"I am heartbroken that a life has been lost here. I urge all people of good will -- go home," Mayor Mike Signer wrote on Twitter.

Virginia's governor had earlier declared an emergency, and police worked to disperse hundreds of protesters in the college town after clashes broke out ahead of the rally's scheduled noon ET start.

Fistfights and screaming matches erupted Saturday, barely 12 hours after a scuffle Friday night at the nearby University of Virginia between torch-bearing demonstrators and counterprotesters.

Saturday's rally was the latest event drawing white nationalists and right-wing activists from across the country to this Democratic-voting town -- a development precipitated by the city's decision to remove symbols of its Confederate past.

Demonstrators clash late Saturday morning in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Here are the latest developments:

• The suspect being held in a Virginia jail in connection with a deadly crash near a scheduled rally of white nationalists has been identified as James Alex Fields Jr. , 20, of Maumee, Ohio, according to Superintendent Martin Kumer with the Albermarle-Charlottesville County Regional Jail. Fields is being held on suspicion of second-degree murder, malicious wounding and failure to stop in an accident that resulted in death.

• Fields' mother, Samantha Bloom, told the Toledo Blade , a CNN affiliate, that he told her last week he was going to an "alt-right" rally, but she didn't get involved in his political views. "I told him to be careful ... if they are going to rally, to make sure he is doing it peacefully," she told the newspaper. CNN's attempt to reach Bloom were unsuccessful.

• Angela Taylor, a spokeswoman for the University of Virginia Medical Center, said there were five patients from the crash in critical condition, four in serious condition, six in fair condition and four in good condition.

CPD & VSP respond to 3-vehicle crash at Water & 4th streets. Several pedestrians struck. Multiple injuries. 1/2 #cvilleaug12 pic.twitter.com/DdHYdL0Uvu — VA State Police (@VSPPIO) August 12, 2017

• Video of the incident shows a gray Dodge Challenger driving quickly down a narrow side street lined with walking protesters. The sports car rams into the back of a silver convertible, which hits the van in front of it. Soon the Dodge driver slams the car in reverse, going back up the street at a high rate of speed, dragging its front bumper. Several people chase the car. As the sports car retreats, a red and white athletic shoe falls off the bumper.

Another video shows at least one person being thrown over the rear of the car onto the roof of the silver convertible then sliding down onto the hood.

• Witness Chris Mahony said he and a friend, who shot one of the videos, were walking down the street when he saw the gray car on the other side of the street.

"It just sat there, looking down the road," he said. "I thought that's a bit strange. There didn't seem to be any other cars stopping him from going. And then a couple moments we heard a car going incredibly fast down the road and then it plowed into the crowd."

• Three other people were arrested Saturday, Virginia State Police said. Two of the men were from out of state. One of the out-of-state men faces a charge of carrying a concealed handgun and the other is charged disorderly conduct. A Virginia man was arrested on suspicion of assault and battery.

• President Donald Trump told reporters: "We are closely following the terrible events unfolding in Charlottesville, Virginia. We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides, on many sides. It has been going on for a long time in our country -- not Donald Trump, not Barack Obama. It has been going on for a long, long time. It has no place in America."

• Former President Barack Obama, quoting Nelson Mandela, wrote on Twitter: "No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin or his background or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love. For love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite."

• Sen. Ted Cruz called on the US Justice Department "to immediately investigate and prosecute today's grotesque act of domestic terrorism." In a posting on Facebook , Cruz said it was "tragic and heartbreaking to see hatred and racism once again mar our great nation with bloodshed." Cruz called the white supremacists "repulsive and evil."

Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia People fly into the air as a vehicle drives into a group of people demonstrating against a white nationalist rally after police cleared Emancipation Park in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, August 12. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia The vehicle moments before it struck the crowd. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A woman receives first aid after a speeding car slammed into this silver convertible as it navigated through a crowd of counterprotesters. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A man embraces an injured woman after a car rammed into the crowd. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Right-wing rally members clash with counterprotesters in Emancipation Park, where white nationalist groups gathered for a rally. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester strikes a white nationalist with a baton during clashes at Emancipation Park, where white nationalists are protesting the removal of the Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee monument. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester throws a newspaper box at a right-wing rally member at the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A counterprotester uses a lighted spray can against a white nationalist at the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Counterprotesters try to burn a Confederate battle flag taken from white nationalist protesters. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the "alt-right" clash with counterprotesters. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A white nationalist is seen with a cut below his eye suffered during clashes with counterprotesters at Emancipation Park . Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists, neo-Nazis and members of the alt-right movement exchange volleys of pepper spray with counterprotesters as they enter Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia A woman is treated for exposure to pepper spray during clashes between white nationalists and counterprotesters at Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalists use shields as they guard the entrance to Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Counterprotesters line the route taken by white nationalists and neo-Nazis during the "Unite the Right" rally. After clashes with anti-fascist protesters and police, the rally was declared an unlawful gathering and people were forced out of Emancipation Park, formerly called Lee Park and home to a controversial statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia White nationalist Richard Spencer and his supporters clash with Virginia State Police in Emancipation Park. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Violence erupts at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia Riot police form a line of defense in front of the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Emancipation Park, recently renamed from Lee Park. Hide Caption 17 of 17

• Police began to break up crowds shortly before noon, after city officials declared the gathering an "unlawful assembly."

• Some protesters fired pepper spray at other demonstrators, state police said.

• Gov. McAuliffe declared a state of emergency "to aid state response to violence," according to a post on his Twitter account

ALERT: Unlawful assembly declared for rally at Emancipation Park #cvilleaug12 pic.twitter.com/2OcchnDNFS — Charlottesville City (@CvilleCityHall) August 12, 2017

Police in riot gear stood shoulder to shoulder behind shields early Saturday afternoon, at times advancing toward crowds, CNN video shows.

By 1 p.m. ET, police had cleared the park where the rally was to be held.

It wasn't immediately clear what led to the fights, though tensions and rhetoric were running hot. At one point, a few dozen white men wearing helmets and holding makeshift shields chanted, "Blood and soil!" Later, another group chanted slogans such as, "Nazi scum off our streets!"

Demonstrators gather Saturday ahead of a "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.

People punched and kicked each other during various scuffles, which often were broken up from within crowds, without police intervention, CNN video shows.

Police presence was heavy, with more than 1,000 officers expected to be deployed, city officials said. Police anticipated the rally would attract as many as 2,000 to 6,000 people, and the Southern Poverty Law Center said it could be the "largest hate-gathering of its kind in decades in the United States."

Counterprotesters gather Saturday morning in Charlottesville, Virginia, ahead of a "Unite the Right" rally.

White nationalists wield torches

White nationalists carrying torches surround protesters Friday night at the foot of a statue of Thomas Jefferson on the University of Virginia's campus.

Charlottesville, once home to Thomas Jefferson, is known as a progressive city of about 47,000 people. During last year's presidential election, 80% of its voters chose Hillary Clinton.

But far-right activists and Ku Klux Klan members have come here in recent months, outraged by the city's intention to remove traces of its links to the Confederacy -- including plans to remove a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee.

The effort developed amid a push by communities across the South to remove Confederate iconography from public property since the 2015 rampage killings of nine black churchgoers in Charleston , South Carolina, by a self-described white supremacist.

Ahead of Saturday's planned rally, tensions roiled Friday night as white nationalists -- some holding what appeared to be backyard tiki-style torches -- marched onto the University of Virginia's campus.

White nationalists and others march Friday night through the University of Virginia campus.

Chanting, "Blood and soil" and "You will not replace us," the group rallied around a statue of Thomas Jefferson before they clashed with counterprotesters, CNN affiliate WWBT reported . The group left the university's grounds when police arrived and declared the gathering an unlawful assembly.

#Charlottesville 9:53pm 🔘 The torches are lit. Hundreds w/ an alt-right march thru UVA pic.twitter.com/H7D2KDbSq6 — Alejandro Alvarez (@aletweetsnews) August 12, 2017

City and UVA officials condemned Friday's march.

"In my 47 years of association with @UVA, this was the most nauseating thing I've ever seen. We need an exorcism on the Lawn," Larry Sabato, director of the university's Center for Politics, tweeted.

In my 47 years of association with @UVA, this was the most nauseating thing I've ever seen. We need an exorcism on the Lawn. — Larry Sabato (@LarrySabato) August 12, 2017

Signer, the Charlottesville mayor, released a statement referring to Friday's rally as a "cowardly parade of hatred, bigotry, racism, and intolerance march down the lawns of the architect of our Bill of Rights."

"Everyone has a right under the First Amendment to express their opinion peaceably, so here's mine: not only as the Mayor of Charlottesville, but as a UVA faculty member and alumnus, I am beyond disgusted by this unsanctioned and despicable display of visual intimidation on a college campus," he added.

Now gathering around statue of Thomas Jefferson. Chanting 'white lives matter!' pic.twitter.com/16cruXn5d8 — Joe Heim (@JoeHeim) August 12, 2017

Friday's march took place shortly after a federal judge granted a temporary injunction allowing right-wing activists to hold Saturday's rally.

City officials had tried to "modify" the rally's permit to move the demonstration from the park with the Lee statue more than a mile away to McIntire Park, citing safety concerns.

'We're going to start standing up for our history'

In February, the city council voted to remove the Lee statue, but that is on hold pending litigation. The council also voted to rename two city parks that had been named for Confederate generals; one of those, Emancipation Park, was due to be the site of Saturday's rally.

Jason Kessler, who organized Saturday's "Unite the Right" rally, said he doesn't consider himself to be a white nationalist. But, he said, "we're going to start standing up for our history."

"The statue itself is symbolic of a lot of larger issues. The primary three issues are preserving history against this censorship and revisionism -- this political correctness," he told CNN Friday.

"The second issue is being allowed to advocate for your interests as a white person, just like other groups are allowed to advocate for their interests politically. And finally, this is about free speech. We are simply trying to express ourselves and do a demonstration, and the local government has tried to shut us down."
====================
Copa America Centenario will use the same rules as the regular Copa Americas, which means that extra time will only be played in the final. For the quarterfinals and semifinals, matches that are tied after regular time will go straight to penalty kicks.

Most competitions use extra time in all knockout matches. Teams play two 15-minute extra time periods in their entirety and only if the match is still tied after those 30 minutes will the matches go to penalty kicks. Copa America traditionally skips the extra time phases in the quarterfinals and semifinals and will do the same for their Centenario tournament.

Unsurprisingly, Copa America features plenty of shootouts as a result. Last year, two quarterfinals went to penalty kicks, while the 2011 tournament had two shootouts in the quarterfinals and one in the semifinals.

Article continues below ...

Skipping extra time is odd, but it might prove to be beneficial for this tournament. As is the case with all summer international competitions, teams will be asked to play a lot of matches in a short period of time. Combine that with the hot temperatures that are common around the U.S. in June and asking players to go 120 minutes on short rest might be a little much.

If the final is tied after regular time, they will play the traditional extra time, with penalties coming after that if the match is still tied.

In addition to the extra time rule, tournament organizers also released the yellow card rules for Copa America Centenario. Any player that receives two yellow cards in the group stage and quarterfinals will be suspended for a match. The slate will be wiped clean after the quarterfinals so the only way a player can be suspended for the final is if he earns a red card in the semifinal.

MORE FROM FOX SOCCER
====================
News > JNU

After Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid is perhaps the most infamous student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University involved in the controversial February 9 event that is at the centre of a national debate. He's been branded anti-national, been told that he's more dangerous to the nation that Maoists, and is currently absconding as he potentially faces being charged in the same sedition case as Kumar. Khalid was one of the organisers of the event on February 9 where anti-India slogans were shouted.

His father, Syed Qasim Rasool Ilyas, now has appealed to his son to surrender himself before a court and have full faith in the judiciary of the nation. But Ilyas has also sought an assurance from the government and police to ensure his son's safety if he faces the law.

"I want Umar to surrender before court and face the law but I also want an assurance from the government and Police that he remains safe from the kind of treatment Kanhaiya Kumar has faced," he told ScoopWhoop.

"It's up to judiciary to determine whether a person is guilty or innocent, not television news channels," Ilyas, who is the president of political outfit Welfare Party of India (WPI), said. "If there were 10 organizers of the event why is only Umar being singled out?"



Umar Khalid's father Syed Qasim Rasool Ilyas | Source: ScoopWhoop/Ahmed Kamal Saifi

He also alleged there's a "deliberate" attempt to "unleash a malicious campaign of character assassination and branding Umar as a terrorist" by certain sections of electronic media due to his Muslim name.

Describing Umar as a "meritorious student", Ilyas said Umar had received offers of scholarships from US universities but he refused saying "he wants to work for his own people in the country."



"He never applied for passport. How can he go to Pakistan?" Ilyas said, refuting allegations made on some news channels that Umar had links with Pakistan-based extremist group Lashkar-e-Taiba.

"Our whole family is disturbed. My daughters are getting threatening messages and emails on social media. Even my US-based daughter is receiving hate mails. I just received a threatening call from Australia from some unknown person who vowed to kill Umar - all because of a media trial," Ilyas said.

While the JNU controversy refuses to calm down, Ilyas is worried about the future of his only son.

"Do you think, he will ever be able to lead a normal life even when he's acquitted of all charges?" Ilyas asked.

Watch the full interview here:

Umar Khaled's father speaks about his son Wanted JNU student Umar Khaled's father speaks about his son and the problem with the media trial in this case. Posted by ScoopWhoop News on Saturday, February 20, 2016





Feature image source: ScoopWhoop/Ahmed Kamal Saifi




====================
At the Hindu festival of Magh Mela last January, hundreds of spectators crowded around a circular pit to witness a dying spectacle: daredevil drivers—in cars or on motorcycles—zipping precariously around a near-vertical pit known as the "Well of Death." Once a sight at festivals across northern India, the practice is now waning—but that doesn't stop festivalgoers and stuntsmen from capitalizing on the few remaining Wells of Death in the country.

If the Well of Death spectacle seems familiar to American and British citizens, that's because the show is based on the American motordromes that dominated fairs in the early 20th century. The first motordrome, a form of boardwalk motorcycle racing involving a slanted track, debuted at Coney Island in 1911. Though their popularity has since waned—a 2006 New York Times article said there are only three left in America—the spectacle spread overseas, becoming wildly popular in Britain. Around 1915, the motordrome turned into the silodrome, shaped like the open circle of a grain silo. Riders would skirt around the edge of the circle, held in place by centrifugal force. In 1929, the first silodrome appeared in the United Kingdom, at Kursaal amusement park in Southend-on-Sea, Essex. The phenomenon fared better in the UK than it did in the United States, remaining popular throughout the 1960s.

Eventually, the spectacle made its way to India, where it was readily adopted by carnival performers. Initially, the performers used manual bicycles to ride around the silodromes. The stunt would go on continuously for 48 hours, according to Surbhi Goel, assistant professor at Panjab University in Chandigarh, India. Eventually, pedal bicycles were replaced by motorcycles and cars (a uniquely Indian addition to the performance).

"Since [cars and bicycles] require re-fueling, longevity has been replaced by daring jumps and stunts," Goel says. Today, performers up the danger of the event by grabbing money from the outstretched hand of spectators, holding hands with fellow riders or switching from cars to motorcycles and back again, all while driving around the wall.

In 2010, the British rock group Django Django featured Well of Death riders from Allahabad in the music video for their song "WOR."

According to Shorna Pal, a director-writer based in Preston, Lancashire, in England, performers tend to be poor, but the audience can come from any socioeconomic background. "It's not a properly advertised event as the young men are usually from pretty impoverished homes and just 'put up' the show where and when they can," she says. "The tickets are extremely cheap and geared at an audience who may be from any economic band, who may have wandered into the park."

The Indian version is considered even more dangerous than western silodromes, since safety precautions aren't often observed—drivers typically don't wear helmets, and cars and motorcycles are often in need of repairs. Sometimes, the wells—constructed out of wooden planks and measuring some 30 or 50 feet across—are missing pieces of wood, creating a precarious surface for cars and motorcycles reaching speeds of 40 miles per hour.

Interest in the spectacle is on the decline, however, as a new generation turns to electronic diversions. "The circus has declined as an attraction for a larger community, hence these shows are now not as fun," Goel says. "Television is the biggest cause—most people would prefer to see daredevil/stunt shows on TV. Films have better and more entertaining stunts​. Popular films in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu have amazing stunts, and those are more attractive for a major population."
====================
The security officials said the pair, reportedly cousins, were among a group throwing stones at troops near the village of Beit Lakia, by Ramallah.

The soldiers were guarding the West Bank barrier Israel is building.

Israeli military officials said the troops fired warning shots in the air before shooting at the crowd.

The violence is likely to put further pressure on a truce declared by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon at a February summit in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt.

"This is a violation of the ceasefire," Abbas aide Nabil Abu Rdainah told Reuters news agency.

"Israel is looking for excuses to raise tensions and to depart from implementing the Sharm understandings."

Israel says its West Bank barrier, a network of fortified fences and concrete walls, is a defence against Palestinian suicide bombers.

Palestinians say the barrier is a means of cementing Israel's hold on occupied Palestinian land.
====================
Everybody wants to join the DevOps movement. Everybody wants their developers and their operations people to work more closely together and take advantage of greater internal IT harmony with the result of higher agility and a faster time to market.

But a new study sponsored by Microsoft finds that while everybody wants to adopt DevOps, the cultural barriers between developers and operations are way more of an obstacle to getting there than any shortcomings of technology. The study -- conducted by Saugatuck Research and given the lofty title of Why DevOps Matters: Practical Insights -- found that overcoming those barriers are both the primary challenge and biggest opportunity for helping customers get there.

The survey polled "over 300 development and IT operations professionals and managers," and found that 71% of IT shops had pockets of automation, and 54% were testing DevOps practices on individual small projects. That's a good start, but only 37% say they have formal DevOps strategies.

Why? Because getting people to overcome personal habits and established workflows is a huge challenge. More than half of respondents said that "overcoming cultural habits inside my organization/company" was the primary hurdle to formalizing DevOps practices, with 37% saying that the real issue is that they simply don't understand it.

"Technologists are good at new technology, but less at introspection and changing themselves," says Mike Bauck, co-founder and co-CEO of configuration management startup ScriptRock, which advised Microsoft on this study in particular and DevOps in general.

In other words, the issue isn't a lack of good, mature tools -- just look at the big success of products like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, and ScriptRock's own GuardRail. The problem is getting people to use them across the entire organization and not just in isolated pockets. The network effect is real and strong, and change can only occur when everybody's invested.

The real way forward, says Volker Will, Microsoft's chief DevOps evangelist, is to push tools that help the disparate operations and development teams work together. He also says that you know, users of the Microsoft platform are uniquely positioned to better join the movement toward agile, flexible development and management thanks to the extensibility of Microsoft tools on the Microsoft platform, especially once the DevOps mindset is extended to the Microsoft Azure cloud.

It's a Microsoft-sponsored study, after all. But it raises yet more evidence of the newer, developer-friendly Microsoft: Will says that it's the company's position that real DevOps change will only come when the huge population of Windows-running IT shops out there are allowed to use the tools they want to use on the platform. If developers can't use the tools they want to use, it just makes more headaches for operations and deepens the divide. But it also leads to enabling the integration of the kinds of third-party, open source, collaborative tools that makes DevOps possible.

"It will enable all the players to get what they really need," Will says.

The study concludes with the finding that maybe, just maybe, Windows shops are more likely to successfully adopt DevOps, just because a more homogenous platform makes it easier to find and deploy the necessary tooling. But the real takeaway here is that DevOps is desirable and coming, and getting people to actually work together isn't easy. The study's advice: Start with small projects and grow your DevOps culture from there.

This story, "Microsoft Study Finds Everybody Wants DevOps But Culture is a Challenge" was originally published by Computerworld .
====================
There are two factors when it comes to a pitching value: how well a pitcher pitches, and how much a pitcher pitches. Pitcher A can dominate his opponents, but if he only lasts five starts before incurring a season-ending injury, his overall value for the season is limited. Similarly, Pitcher B can toss 250 innings, but if he's knocked around all season long, he won't be of much value (although, frankly, poor pitchers rarely throw that much).

Even though both factors are of paramount importance when it comes to assessing pitching value, I'd argue that peak tends to be overvalued in comparison to longevity. I'd expect that most people take the guy with the lower ERA over the guy with the higher inning count, even in cases where the higher inning count outweighs the difference in ERA. I'm not exactly sure how to go about proving this, though I'd expect end-of-season voting for the Cy Young Award reflects this to some extent, particularly when it comes to the starter/reliever divide.

It is for this reason, in part, that I believe Livan Hernandez to be undervalued. Hernandez, over his career, has maintained a 96 ERA+. He's been remarkably average -- slightly below, even -- over his 17-year career. However, he's also been remarkably durable. Over the 14-year stretch from 1998 to 2011, Hernandez averaged 33 starts a season. He led the league in innings pitched three years in a row, from 2003 to 2005, tossing 735 innings over that span. For his career, Hernandez has been worth 23.7 rWAR. That's nothing special -- that's what a consistently average pitcher would do over a 12-year career -- but it puts him in company with guys like Dave Stewart (also 23.7 rWAR) and Mike Flanagan (23.9 rWAR).

Hernandez is greatly undervalued for a couple other reasons though: his hitting and his defense.

Hernandez has spent the vast majority of his career in the National League, which is convenient, because he's an excellent hitter. Well, at least by pitcher standards. To date, he's come to the plate 1108 times, posting a .222/.231/.296 line (.231 wOBA, 32 wRC+). That's also nothing special -- there's not a convincing argument there that he should have converted to a full-time hitter or anything -- but it's markedly better than what the average pitcher can do with the bat. Considering that pitchers have hovered around a -10 wRC+ during Hernandez's years as a full-time starter, a 32 wRC+ from the nine-spot in the lineup is certainly pretty valuable. Indeed, Fangraphs has his work at the plate valued at 9.4 wins above replacement in total. If you add that to their valuation of his pitching (36.2 fWAR), that increases his total output by roughly 25%.

Now we come to the third aspect: pitcher defense. For this, we can turn to Defensive Runs Saved, of which there are three components: Stolen Base Runs Saved (rSB), Plus/Minus Runs Saved (rPM), and Good Fielding Plays (rGFP). The last component is negligible with respect to Hernandez, so let's focus on the other two.

rSB is calculated by accounting for stolen base success rates and frequency, with the assumption that 65% of a defense's control of the running game is in the pitcher's hands. Since 2003, Hernandez has been saved +9 runs with his control of the running game -- or roughly one win.

By rPM, the amount of plays a pitcher makes above or below what the average pitcher does, Hernandez has saved +24 runs since 2003. Considering that his best two seasons came in 2003 (+8) and 2004 (+7), the earliest seasons for which there exist such calculations, I think it's fair to assume that Hernandez rated pretty well by this measurement in the years that came before this data was available (1998 to 2002, in particular).

Even without that data though, Hernandez is at +34 defensive runs saved for his career. That, in addition to the 9.4 batting WAR, accounts for roughly 13 wins of added value. Considering this boost, and the fact that Hernandez's contributions with his arm alone are probably undervalued, I posit that Hernandez is the most underrated pitcher in recent history. He's definitely in the conversation, at least.
====================
Microsoft today announced the preview release of their new documentation service https://docs.microsoft.com. Based on the feedback from hundreds of developers and IT Pros, Microsoft came to know that their exiting content platforms like TechNet and MSDN needed a refresh. Since both these sites are built on a 10-15 year-old codebase with an archaic publishing and deployment system, they decided to create a brand new service that offers a modern web experience for content.

Our focus was not only on the experience, but also on the content we create and how each of you consume it. For years customers have told us to go beyond walls of text with feature-level content and help them implement solutions to their business problems. We knew that the content we delivered and the platform we built must make it easy for customers to learn and deploy solutions.

In this preview release, only Enterprise Mobility Documentation (which consists of Advanced Threat Analytics, Azure Active Directory, Azure Remote App, Multi-factor Authentication, Azure Rights Management, Intune, and Microsoft Identity Manager) is available. In the future, Microsoft will migrate more of their documentation onto this new experience.

Page load time on docs.microsoft.com are between 50-300% faster in terms of load time when compared to old sites. Read about all the new features offered in this new site here.
====================
Second-quarter financial results are due from a number of automakers this week. And as much as we love poring over the numbers (we're nerds that way), we also love seeing how those figures get heralded in headlines. The variations can be very, very telling.

Case in point: Chrysler, which announced Q2 results this morning. According to the the company's official press release, Chrysler had a bang-up three months, roaring through April, May, and June with a $183 million operating profit. Not surprisingly, that's what Chrysler's hometown paper chose to highlight in its headline today: "Chrysler posts $183M operating profit for Q2". The first two sentences of the Detroit News article are pretty glowing: "Chrysler Group LLC today reported a second-quarter profit of $183 million on operations, its second consecutive quarterly operating profit since emerging from bankruptcy last year.... Chrysler surprised the industry by making $143 million on operations, which excludes interest and taxes, in the first quarter."

Several hundred miles to the east, the news wasn't received quite so warmly. The Rupert Murdoch's conservative Wall Street Journal bellowed "Chrysler Posts $172 Million Loss Amid Sluggish Sales" . Compare the first two sentences above with these from WSJ: "Chrysler Group LLC reported a net loss of $172 million for the second quarter amid sluggish sales, the latest sign that the smallest of the three Detroit auto makers continues to struggle a year after emerging from bankruptcy reorganization. The loss was slightly lower than the $197 net loss the company reported in the first quarter of this year." The East Coast headlines weren't all bad for Chrysler, though: the more liberal New York Times proclaimed "Revenue Rises, and Chrysler Narrows Its Loss in Quarter".

Why such discrepancies? First and foremost, there are the obvious political issues surrounding Chrysler's controversial bankruptcy and bailout, which was overseen by the Obama administration. But the variations are also a product of Chrysler's mixed-bag report: there's a lot of data in the financials, and lots of fodder for Chrysler's return or ruin, depending on which side of the argument writers are inclined to take.

We don't pretend to be economists or financial advisors, but there are a couple of important things to note about Chrysler's news:

Chrysler did have an operating profit of $183 million, up from $143 million in Q1.

Despite all that, Chrysler realized a net loss of $172 million in Q2, making for a loss of $369 million for the first half of 2010.

Chrysler has seen a 22% increase in sales, from 334,000 in Q1 to 407,000 in Q2.

Many attribute that surge to fleet sales, which account for a huge chunk of Chrysler's U.S. transactions -- 39% to be exact. (Chrysler's retail sales, on the other hand, are down 19% for the year.)

Nevertheless, Chrysler's CEO expects to see a profit this calendar year, with a projected $40 - $45 billion in net revenues and operation profit somewhere below $200 million.

Does Mr. Marchionne sound overly optimistic? Or will the widely acclaimed 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee, paired with the (possible) December launch of the Fiat 500, be enough to save the company's bottom line? Have a look through Chrysler's press release and debate amongst yourselves.

* * * * *

Chrysler Group LLC Reports Financial Results for the Period Ended June 30, 2010

CHRYSLER GROUP ACHIEVED A POSITIVE OPERATING PROFIT OF $183 MILLION IN THE SECOND QUARTER AND POSITIVE CASH FLOW OF $474 MILLION, FURTHER STRENGTHENING CASH POSITION TO $7,841 MILLION AS AT JUNE 30, 2010

AUBURN HILLS, Mich., Aug. 9 /PRNewswire/ --

Net Revenues in Q2 2010 increased to $10.5 billion , up 8.2 percent from $9.7 billion in Q1 2010.

Operating Profit (a) came in at $183 million , an improvement of $40 million versus Q1 2010.

Modified EBITDA (a,b) was $855 million (8.2 percent of Net Revenues), a $68 million increase from Q1 2010.

Net Loss reduced to $172 million in Q2 2010 due to improved operating profit.

Cash (c) at June 30, 2010 increased to $7.8 billion , bringing total available liquidity to more than $10 billion . Net Industrial Debt (d) decreased to $3.4 billion .

Market share improved to 9.4 percent in the U.S., from 9.1 percent in Q1 2010; Canada market share remained strong at 12.9 percent in Q2 2010.

2010 guidance remains unchanged (including a minimum of operating breakeven), but will probably be revised upwards on the basis of Q3 2010 results.

Chrysler Group LLC today issued its financial results for the second quarter 2010.

In Q2 2010, Net Revenues increased to $10,478 million representing an 8.2 percent improvement over the prior quarter. First half 2010 Net Revenues totaled $20,165 million.

The Company ended Q2 2010 with an Operating Profit(a) of $183 million and a first half 2010 Operating Profit of $326 million.

"The second quarter operating profit confirms that Chrysler Group is on track to achieve its goals, yet an extraordinary amount of work still lies ahead," said Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer, Chrysler Group LLC. "Customer traffic in our dealerships and confidence in the Company's future continued to grow with the launch of the all-new 2011 Jeep® Grand Cherokee, one of the signature vehicles for Chrysler Group. The Grand Cherokee sets the standard for this Company to produce high quality, technologically advanced vehicles.

"2010 is seen as a year of transition and stabilization. With most of our 16 all-new or refreshed products launching later this year, including the all-new Chrysler 300, Dodge Charger, Dodge CUV, the iconic Fiat 500, and the Chrysler Sebring replacement, Chrysler Group must continue to be rigorous, disciplined and focused on the task at hand," Marchionne said.

The Q2 2010 Operating Profit improvement of $40 million, compared to Q1 2010, was driven primarily by continued volume increases. This improvement was partially offset by the impact of the Jeep Grand Cherokee changeover and moderate increases in incentive programs. Industrial costs increased due primarily to the ramp-up of ER&D expenses for the new product offensive starting in the second half of the year, partially offset by continued manufacturing efficiencies.

Modified Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (Modified EBITDA)(a,b) was $855 million, or 8.2 percent of Net Revenue, a $68 million increase from Q1 2010; first half 2010 Modified EBITDA was $1,642 million.

Net Interest Expense in Q2 2010 was $296 million, including a non-cash interest accretion of $58 million. Net Interest Expense was $591 million for the first half of 2010.

Net Loss in Q2 2010 was reduced to $172 million as compared with $197 million in Q1 2010, driven by the increase in Operating Profit. Net Loss for first half 2010 was $369 million.

Cash(c) at the end of June 2010 was $7,841 million compared to $7,367 million at the end of Q1. An additional $2.3 billion remains available to be drawn under Chrysler Group's U.S. Treasury (UST) and Canadian and Ontario government loan agreements, bringing total available liquidity above $10 billion.

Gross Industrial Debt(d) at June 30, 2010 remained at $11.2 billion. Net Industrial Debt(d) improved to $3.4 billion, as a result of positive cash flow of $474 million.

Worldwide vehicle sales were 407,000 units for Q2 2010, an increase of 22 percent compared to 334,000 units in Q1 2010, with all brands posting gains. U.S. market share improved to 9.4 percent in Q2 2010 from 9.1 percent in Q1 2010. In addition, Canadian market share was a strong 12.9 percent as a result of sales increasing 32 percent versus Q1 2010. Throughout the quarter, sales showed steady growth as brand repositioning efforts and investments in marketing campaigns continued to drive increased customer traffic into dealership showrooms.

Worldwide vehicle shipments in Q2 were 433,000, representing an increase of 14 percent versus Q1 2010. U.S. vehicle shipments totaled 305,000, representing an increase of approximately 16 percent versus Q1 2010.

Chrysler Group maintained a U.S. dealer inventory level consistent with its higher sales performance, increasing from 208,000 vehicles at Q1 2010 to 222,000 vehicles on June 30. Days supply increased slightly to 60 days (from 58), ensuring that Chrysler dealers will be able to service customers during the model year changeover period.

Significant Events: Second Quarter and Subsequent to June 30, 2010

On May 21, the Company celebrated the production launch of the all-new 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee at the Jefferson North Assembly Plant (JNAP). Concurrently, Chrysler Group announced the addition of a second shift of production with about 1,100 employees hired. In preparation for the new product, JNAP went through a complete transformation as part of World Class Manufacturing, taking the plant to world class levels of flexibility and competitiveness.

The Jeep Grand Cherokee quickly garnered widespread global opinion-leader accolades and also received the "Top Safety Pick" award from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) – the highest rating the organization bestows.

On July 30, more than 1,500 UAW-represented employees welcomed President Obama to JNAP. The President visited the plant to see a company on the road to recovery and to congratulate employees for their contributions to Chrysler Group's success.

During the second quarter, Chrysler Group announced two significant investments in its Kokomo, Ind., facilities. In May, the Company announced a $43 millionJune 9, an additional $300 million investment in new equipment and tooling that will expand operations at the Kokomo Casting and Kokomo Transmission plants. On investment in Indiana Transmission Plant I and Kokomo Casting was announced that will ready the plants for the production of a new, highly fuel-efficient, eight-speed automatic transmission. The investments will result in nearly 1,600 new or retained jobs.

As part of the process to integrate the distribution activities of Fiat Group Automobiles and Chrysler Group in Europe, in May 2010, the two companies began the reorganization and integration of the Chrysler and Lancia sales networks. This integration will lead to the creation of an integrated network of over 1,000 dealerships across Europe by 2014.

Chrysler Group expects that its European and South American sales will double between 2010 and 2011, to nearly 200,000 sales, an increase largely attributable to Chrysler's ability to leverage Fiat's international distribution networks. During the second quarter, distribution of Chrysler Group vehicles under this new integrated business model began in Italy, France, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands.

In May, Chrysler Group established an agreement with Santander Consumer USA to provide new-car financing at attractive rates to consumers with credit scores below 650, traditionally considered non-prime customers. Ally Financial remains Chrysler Group's preferred prime lender.

In addition to the Jeep Grand Cherokee, in the second quarter, the Company introduced an all-new 2011 Ram Chassis Cab commercial truck, the 2010 Dodge Viper SRT10 ACR-X special-edition model of America's ultimate sports car, and the Mopar® 2010 Dodge Challenger, the first-ever special-edition Mopar version of the Dodge brand's iconic American muscle-car.

Chrysler Group vehicles continued to win awards in the second quarter. The all-new 2010 Ram Heavy Duty and Dodge Nitro were named the Top Heavy Duty Pickup and Top Mid-Size Sport Utility, respectively, in the AutoPacific 14th annual Vehicle Satisfaction Awards (VSA). VSA is the industry benchmark for measuring how satisfied an owner is with their new car or light truck. Earlier in the year, the iconic Jeep Wrangler was named the "Best and Most Significant 4X4 Vehicle of the Decade" by Four Wheeler magazine editors.

On July 2, Chrysler de Mexico, a subsidiary of Chrysler Group LLC, entered into a financing arrangement with Bancomext and Nafin, for the Mexican peso equivalent of $400 million. The facility was fully drawn in July. The proceeds are to be used to finance the production of the Fiat 500 at the Toluca, Mexico plant.

The dealer arbitration process concluded in July with more than 70 percent of arbitrator decisions in Chrysler Group's favor. About 4 percent of the 789 dealers rejected during the bankruptcy process prevailed in arbitrations. Chrysler Group issued a Letter of Intent to each of the prevailing dealers to join Chrysler Group's dealer network, provided they meet financial and operational prerequisites.

On July 30, the Company announced that its Sterling Heights (Mich.) Assembly Plant, which was scheduled to close after 2012, will remain open beyond that date. Management is working with city and state officials to finalize certain related tax incentives. Chrysler Group will also add nearly 900 jobs on a second shift of production scheduled to start in the first quarter of 2011.

2010 Outlook

Pending the closing and reporting of Q3 financials, the Company confirms the following targets for the year:

Net Revenues of $40 - 45 billion

Operating Profit of $0.0 - 0.2 billion

Modified EBITDA of $2.5 - 2.7 billion

Negative Free Cash Flow of $1.0 billion

It is highly probable, in view of the Company's performance to date and our forecast of trading activity in the remainder of the year, that the Company will upgrade guidance for 2010 when announcing Q3 2010 results.

Management will hold an analyst conference call August 9 at 10 a.m. EDT to present the 2010 second quarter results. The call can be followed live and a recording will be available on the Chrysler Group website: www.chryslergroupllc.com.

[PRNewswire]
====================
Just a year ago, Alex Roetter took over Twitter’s engineering activities in an executive shuffle. And a year later, Twitter’s now in the middle of finding a new CEO.

But that hasn’t stopped the company from continuing to following the strategy former CEO Dick Costolo and Roetter put in place to continue building out the company’s engineering team and launch new products. It’s a pretty simple approach — hire some of the best engineers and put them in small, agile teams with little top-down structure, Roetter said.

Twitter itself is a complex problem filled with tons of information coming in all at once. The company has to sift through all that data, surface up the best information, and amid all that figure out new ways to make it easier and more approachable for new users. That in of itself is an interesting engineering problem and, in fact, the CEO transition also hasn’t given Twitter any problems bringing in new engineers either, Roetter said.

We caught up with Roetter this week to hear a bit more about where Twitter’s engineering team is and a little bit more about the atmosphere within Twitter right now. Below is a lightly edited transcript of the conversation.

TC: Where is Twitter now in terms of its engineering focus and priorities? What are your priorities?

Alex Roetter: I’ve had this job for about a year, what I’m maniacally focused on is building an environment where world-class engineers can do the best they’ve done in their careers. One way you know it’s working, is we’ve seen a massive acceleration of the pace of execution. We’re seeing a bunch of signs of that so far, but of course there’s more to do. One of the ways as well that, you build a stable culture where you give them basically a really stable vision, really strong teams, and the tools to get their jobs done.

Twitter, as you know, has this total audience strategy. Twitter has really great, broadly appealing, universally interesting content. However, today you have to use the app to get that content, and the Twitter of the future is much broader. What we mean is, we reach everyone wherever they happen to be. You might be logged in, you might see it through a third-party app, through a syndicate site — having a stable strategy is an important part of executing on that vision with those teams. That’s what we started working on last year.

TC: What’s the archetype for engineers that you are looking for in your teams?

AR: The model is, I try to find great people and empower them with the bare minimum of top-down structure they need. Top-down [structure] is great for things like setting a clear direction and explaining what’s important to the company. Other than that, you really want to use [a] top-down [structure] as sparingly as possible. We try to build teams that thrive in an environment with a clear direction, but the details are unspecified. Teams are able to try a bunch of things and fail fast, and hold themselves accountable and measure themselves rigorously. We find that smaller teams are faster, we try to build them in that sort of environment. When there’s no top-down direction around the specific things they can try, they’re left to do bottoms up.

As a result of that being our philosophy, we look for people who are extremely technically strong, people who run in and fill in the gaps. When there’s an unspecified problem, you run in and make it work. You don’t look at it and say, ‘I’m paralyzed’. We look at people with side projects, open source projects, school projects, and look and see if they’re a cultural fit.

TC: How do you reconcile the need to bring relevant content to more casual users with some users still wanting a reverse chronological timeline as their primary interface?

Every time you open Twitter, we should show the best stuff to you. Alex Roetter

AR: I don’t think they’re mutually exclusive. So, it’s a continuum. For people today who have curated their follower lists and open the app really frequently, Twitter works really well. We can see the app and how often they return. For those people we don’t need to make dramatic changes.

But the other end of the spectrum are people we know relatively little about, and the app isn’t as effective as it could be. Every time you open Twitter, we should show the best stuff to you. We’re gonna try different fits on different parts of that spectrum, we think there’s room for both of those to exist. We’ll learn by asking them more targeted questions, observing their behavior. For core users, we don’t want to change much, it’s a good product. For this new wave, we can do a lot better, but to get to it you have to dig in to it, know the right moment to open your phone.

TC: What are the technical challenges for something like that?

AR: Twitter is a giant info retrieval problem. Here’s an example: ‘While You Were Away’ is a special case of that. I know what you’ve historically done on twitter, what the other features you’ve used, and we need to instantly score all the content that I can possibly show you, and rank it, and get it out, and get feedback in real-time. When you dismiss [a tweet], we ask if it’s helpful. But expanding that further, the tech challenge gets harder. Every time you get to twitter, pull something out of your phone, think of Twitter as immediately considering the content on twitter, your history, the content on the internet, and digesting it and figuring out what to get to you. It has to work globally and be fault tolerant.

TC: I haven’t seen the Fail Whale all that much recently. How have you guys attacked that problem?

AR: I’m glad you’ve noticed. It’s a large distributed systems problem. We split the app into a bunch of independent services that can talk to each other, and then run a bunch of tests. If anything fails, it degrade gracefully. ‘I can do what I can, but omit one thing when the service fails’ rather than the service just falling over entirely. Twitter’s very bursty, right — there are events on Twitter that are double sigma events, orders of magnitude heavier. We do load testing, we’re auto injecting failures into the system, so we know we’ll be able to handle them. We take things down, we split the system up. It’s a lot of work but it is paying off.

TC: And what are you guys working on, on that front?

AR: Better ways to handle spikes, better ways to be able to slowly make the experience a little worse for users under cases of heavy load rather than just falling over. Most of the uptime has been solved, but we can always take it to the next level. As we work on ranking twitter content and getting it to the timeline, we want to make sure that works.

Another thing we work on — it’s not obvious — you want engineers to move as fast as possible with bare minimum of process but having automation to catch problems so you don’t break something.

TC: Does Twitter have code reviews?

AR: Yep. All the code that goes into production gets reviewed. That’s one of the fundamental principles we believe in to do high quality work. It’s not so much about catching quality, it’s about sharing knowledge and best practices, and making sure we’re not investing and not reinventing the wheel, and serving as a teaching mechanism.

TC: How have things been since the CEO search process started?

AR: I would say, the shortest is, it’s business as usual. The stuff I talked about, about the total audience strategy and finding them great people, some of the wins you’ve seen like Fabric, While You Were Away, a bunch of others, those are all part of our strategy that were conceived a while ago, those

The good news is [Twitter interim CEO] Jack [Dorsey’s] been the chairman of the board, he’s fully on board, he has confidence in the team, he knows all of us really well. We’re continuing to execute and accelerate the pace. People feel good, people know Jack. The reason I think its exciting time, if we answer your question for you, we get the best stuff, wherever you are, then Twitter’s a much more impactful and bigger company than it is today.

TC: Has the CEO transition had any effect on recruiting?

AR: No, not the transition specially. We go after exclusively world-class engineers, they’ve always had a lot of options. Recruiting is something I spend a lot of time on, but the great thing is, we’re able to bring in tons of really strong new people.Nandini Ramini to run all our engineering effectiveness, that’s a team that’s making sure everyone has the tools to be successful. [VP of platform engineering] Chris Pinkam ran parts of Amazon, he now runs all our backend. [New York engineering lead] Vijay Pandurangan, now the engineering lead on project Lightning.

But recruiting, we live in a competitive environment, that’s still the case with Dick and Jack as the CEO. That’s just life, but for the right people twitter is an amazing opportunity. you can always go to a bigger company but never move the needle. You can always found your own startup. The thing that attracts people to us is to go work at a $24 billion public company where still the company has only realized a small fraction of what it can be. And there are many examples of individuals coming in and changing the trajectory of the company in a short period of time, that’s a compelling story.

TC: What’s your best story about Dorsey?

AR: He just started doing this, he does this at Square — we send out the raw unedited notes from our multi-hour staff meeting to the entire company. It’s interesting, it’s hyper transparent, they’re not summarized, you see the raw bullets. It exposes all the interesting things we’re working on, it has sections like what the challenges or what were missing. I think it’s really interesting idea he’s pioneered for us around making sure everyone around the company understands. We’ve just done it one week so far, I’ve heard it gets really good results anecdotally.

TC: How do you guys view the problem of advertising relevance right now?

“We send out the raw unedited notes from our multi-hour staff meeting to the entire company… It’s hyper transparent, they’re not summarized, you see the raw bullets.” Alex Roetter

AR: I was one of the earliest engineers on the ads team. I was involved in ads for almost five years. It’s a ranking problem, it’s an information problem. Our philosophy is, we want to show ads to users and marketers that add value, and in the process Twitter makes money. We’re always computing over all the content based on your interests and activities — What I should show you and how I show you that. We learn correction factors so we can move things up and down depending on quality and what kind of user you are. It’s similar to the sorts of things we’re taking and applying to the timeline. It’s an iterative improvement process. The first day Google started, search wasn’t as good as it is today. You iterate forever. We’ve improved the ad ranking algorithm constantly for years, and we’re doing the same thing on the organic side as well.

TC: So what happens when I mark an ad as offensive?

AR: We take all that and it goes back into the ranking model. We’ll make different predictions based on all the things users do, what you mark as offensive, what you engage with, what you do organically. there are no hard-coded rules about it.

TC: What’s are some of the technical problems associated with ads?

AR: It’s a real-time, very high velocity large-scale ranking problem. We always want to be able to do a better job — and I can do a better job for you if I have more data, being able to optimally match you to content. Ads done well can be really great, ads done poorly can be really annoying. Now include all the real-time components of this, one thing we’ve learned from tradition ad systems, the real-time signal is really important. When we did that our ranking got much better, as measured by real world user behavior.

TC: Anything else you want to add?

AR: Stuff’s starting to pay off. You see the site is up more, the pace of product development has accelerated. The thing that I think is exciting about twitter and the thing that helps us attract is the realization that the opportunity of Twitter is so much bigger if we rejigger the product a little. There’s this unlimited upside for people to come in and work on small, minimal teams and try new things.
====================
Is Google seeking to control the entire internet and execute a news blackout?

Did your mother ever use the phrase, “Don’t cut your nose off to spite your face”? If you are unfamiliar with the phrase, it simply means that one should not enact revenge on a third party if it is going to harm oneself and this seems to be exactly what all forms of major social media, plus Google, are presently doing.

(Article republished from TheCommonSenseShow.com)

As a caveat, please allow me to mention that articles on media don’t do well. However, this is one article you are going to read. If Google is permitted to continue on their path of extreme censorship, everything you will soon see, hear and read will be controlled. And when the New World Order is fully rolled out, you will have no clue that you have just entered Satan’s realm and you will lose total control.

Led by Google, one of the most evil corporate entities on the face of the Earth, this monolithic corporation harming their own mainstream media (MSM) outlets so they can also drive the Independent Media (i.e. alt media) out of business.

Presently, most alt media (i.e. the Independent Media) are bleeding money. Most sights are not coming close to a financial break even point because of extreme media censorship of their ideas and written expressions. For example, at Youtube, owned by Google, is demonetizing any discussions of war, civil war, natural disasters (?), economic issues, mention of any controversial (ie sensitive events), etc. In other words, the alt media cannot write about the news. Fox and CNN’s social media outlets have largely been left untouched. However, I have discovered that this is changing as well. More on this development a little late in this article.

In this scenario, the intent is clear. The looney, liberal left intends to eradicate all conservative coverage of the news no matter what the cost. Why are they doing this? The simple and most accurate answer is that they want to control everything that you see, hear and read. They need to enslave your mind so you will accept the unfolding of the Luciferian New World Order and Google’s place in it. This is one of the main reasons that my copyrighted byline says “Freeing America One Enslaved Mind at a Time”. These words were intentionally chosen and this article captures the importance of a people to remain intellectually free so they can be physically free.

Trump’s Campaign Unleashed the Floodwaters of Free Thinking

The Donald Trump populist movement is the most dangerous aspect of the current political climate and it is a direct obstacle to the full roll-out of the New World Order. Also, in the short-term, these interlocked corporate entities are protecting their own turf through their practice of extreme censorship. Four months ago on a typical day, more people were exposed to my work on a daily basis than to Wolf Blitzer, by a factor of three. This was also true of many of the Fox News shows as well. In short, the Independent media was destroying the MSM.

What appears to be a victory for the globalists and their return the Kings of the media, appears to be backfiring on their own MSM outlets.

Read more at: TheCommonSenseShow.com
====================




After TotalBiscuit hosted his SHOUTcraft America Winter tournament he announced a show-match between the players Scarlett and NaNiwa funded by Bitcoins. Two days prior to the showmatch between Scarlett and Naniwa it was announced that iNcontroL and Destiny would be playing an undercard show-match for 1 Bitcoin before the event because of community interest and to ensure an acceptably lengthy event.

Tournament Information [ edit ]

Casters [ edit ]

IdrA, and TotalBiscuit.

Format [ edit ]

Best of 7 format.

Map Pool Details [ edit ]

Prize Pool [ edit ]

14 Bitcoins is spread among the players as seen below:

Converted USD prizes are based on the currency exchange rate (taken from xe.com) on December 21, 2013: 1 BTC (XBT) = 636.99206 USD.

Participants [ edit ]

Results [ edit ]

NaNiwa 4 Scarlett 2

Undercard Match Results [ edit ]

iNcontroL 1 Destiny 2

Racial Distribution [ edit ]

Protoss Terran Zerg Random Final Match 1 1 Winner 1

View Games [ edit ]

Stream

VODs

VODs @ SC2Casts

Additional Content [ edit ]

See Also [ edit ]
====================
TEHRAN, Iran (CNN) -- A reporter for Newsweek magazine who was arrested in Tehran has confessed to doing the bidding of Western governments, the semi-official Fars News Agency reported Wednesday.

Newsweek says Maziar Bahari has been reporting for years without bias and beyond reproach.

Maziar Bahari, 42, made his alleged confession at a news conference Tuesday. Because international journalists have been limited in their ability to gather news in Iran, CNN has not been able to confirm the agency report.

Fars reported that the Canadian-Iranian reporter who had worked for the BBC and England's Channel 4 network admitted having filed false reports for Newsweek during the elections -- a charge the magazine rejected.

"He has been reporting for years without any possible hint of bias and beyond reproach," Newsweek Paris Bureau Chief Chris Dickey told CNN. "We think he's one of the best reporters in the business."

He called the report "preposterous."

Dickey said Bahari had not been allowed to speak with a lawyer or with his family since his arrest on June 21.

"The Western media are part of the capitalist machinery and liberal democratic governments of the West," Bahari reportedly said. "When a Western reporter comes to Iran, like a politician or specialist, he will be made to fit into the Western complex. For that person, the interests of the Westerners, who take advantage of every occasion to stand against Iran, are of utmost importance."

The Fars News Agency account adds that most Western news outlets oppose Iran, but that the Ministry of Information scrutinizes reporters' work, minimizing any harm they might do.

Bahari reportedly said Iranian reporters can be tempted by offers of money from Western news organizations to report for them. "Unfortunately, sometimes we fall prey to mistakes, wrong feelings and we become greedy, thus falling into the traps of the foreigners," he said, according to the news agency transcript.

In their alleged attempt to foment revolution in Iran, journalists' efforts began two months before the election, according to the account attributed to Bahari:

"The first step was to propagate the thought of questioning religious authority and maintain that the Islamic Republic of Iran has no popular support and then they said that, under the shadow of such a system, the voting process would be rigged and much hard work went into making this thought a reality in peoples' minds."

Hassiba Hadj-Sahraoui of Amnesty International rejected Bahari's alleged confession, calling it part of the Islamic Republic's effort to intimidate the opposition and blame Western powers for the post-election chaos.

"We know from people we've talked to that people have been forced to make confessions on TV where they are supposed to have acted on instigation of foreign powers," she said.

Indeed, Iran's state-run Press TV has broadcast interviews with people who said they were guilt-ridden protesters who wanted to unburden themselves by confessing that the Western media had made them act as they did.

Bahari is not the only reporter said to have confessed, according to Reporters Without Borders, which last week condemned "a parade of Iranian demonstrators being shown on state-run TV confessing to having protested at the behest of foreign media."

The reporters all used the same words: "I admit that I demonstrated under the influence of the BBC, the radio Voice of America and other foreign media," according to the advocacy group. Watch about the dangers of reporting in Iran »

In a posting on his Web site, former President Mahmoud Khatami accused the government of having restricted communications in the country. "The state-owned media outlet shows the same scenes over and over again, in order to provoke people's feelings," he said. "Where was this media outlet when tens of people were killed and hundreds of people beaten?"

He added, "The majority of those arrested are the political activists, journalists and attorneys, who now, unbelievably are pressured, as foreign agents, to falsely confess in television spectacles."

Reporters Without Borders said that 28 journalists -- including about 20 who work for a newspaper owned by opposition presidential candidate Mir Hossein Moussavi -- have been arrested since the election.

"Arresting an entire editorial staff is totally unprecedented," Reporters Without Borders said.

Questioned about the arrest of foreign journalists during demonstrations, the intelligence minister, Mohseni Ejehi, said that "one or two people who came to gather secret information were arrested, but not as journalists. One of them had his equipment confiscated and he is now the subject of an investigation."

Reporters are not the only people at risk. Amnesty International said as many as 1,000 people have disappeared since the June 12 election.

With his purported confession, Bahari is no longer among them.

"We're very happy that they've acknowledged responsibility for holding him," Newsweek's Dickey said. "And we hope very much that they will understand that it is in everybody's interest to release him as soon as possible."

All About Iran • Mir Hossein Moussavi • Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
====================
If you’ve never seen the helmets the San Francisco 49ers rolled out 25 years ago this week, that’s understandable: The team never wore them in a game.

But those helmets, which replaced the classic “SF” logo with a then-modern looking “49ers” logo, were introduced with great fanfare by coach George Seifert and owner Eddie DeBartolo Jr. in February of 1991, with the team saying it was time for a fresh look. It did not go over well.

“The phones keep ringing,” team PR assistant Al Barba told the San Francisco Chronicle. “People are saying the old logo was classier, that it meant San Francisco. I guess they basically don’t like it.”

It’s easy to see why they didn’t like it: That “49ers” logo was ugly, and the old “SF” logo, which the team still uses today, is classy. Some fans worried that moving away from “SF” was the first step toward moving out of San Francisco.

“That’s great, the new logo stunk,” one fan told the Chronicle after DeBartolo apologized and announced his team wouldn’t change logos after all. “I was kind of worried that if DeBartolo could change the helmet logo that fast, the next thing [it] was going to be the San Jose 49ers.”

As it turned out, the 49ers now play closer to San Jose than to San Francisco. But at least they’re not wearing ugly helmets.
====================
Football might be the ultimate team sport, but the NFL is dominated by larger-than-life talents -- those players who, through sheer force of skill and personality, seem able to single-handedly drive their squads. A player like that can become everything to his organization, defining its identity and dictating its fortunes. In other words, he becomes the face of the franchise. Of course, though, one man can carry the franchise torch for only so long, as time is a cruel thief. Eventually, the onus falls on someone else.

Looking ahead to the 2014 season, Bucky Brooks has identified the face of each franchise, along with a player waiting in the wings to potentially take up the mantle in the future. Below you'll find analysis for each NFC North team. Click here to access the homepage of this division-by-division series.

Chicago Bears: Lance Briggs

Defense has been Chicago's backbone since the days of "Papa Bear," George Halas. Briggs, a seven-time Pro Bowler, replaced retired linebacker Brian Urlacher as the unit's leader last season, setting the tone with his ultra-aggressive demeanor, toughness and knack for playmaking -- but he missed much of the year with a shoulder injury, and the Bears struggled to stop opponents, finishing with the NFL's 30th ranked defense. In 2014, he'll anchor a defense that must play at an exceptional level to spark a playoff run.

Next in line: Jay Cutler. Cutler is entering his sixth season with the Bears -- and ninth in the NFL -- but he remains a mystery man from a leadership standpoint. Yes, his teammates have steadfastly supported him as a franchise quarterback since his arrival in Chicago in 2009, but it's time for the veteran to take his game to another level. Armed with a fat new contract (he signed a seven-year, $126 million extension in January, with $54 million guaranteed), Cutler will be expected to step to the fore as the Bears' unquestioned leader and guide the team back to championship contention.

Detroit Lions: Calvin Johnson

Megatron might not have broken any records in 2013 -- like he did in 2012 -- but the Pro Bowl wideout remains the most dangerous offensive weapon in the game. Johnson, who has compiled 45 receiving touchdowns over the past four seasons, averaged a ridiculous 17.8 yards per catch last year despite battling a balky knee that kept him from fully tormenting defenders with his speed and athleticism. With Johnson healthy and positioned to flourish in a more dynamic offensive system, the Lions have the ultimate playmaker to build around for the next few years.

Next in line: Matthew Stafford. For all the talk about Johnson carrying the franchise on his back, the Lions' future fortunes rest on the development of Stafford as a championship-caliber quarterback. The former No. 1 overall pick has flashed big-time ability and impressive arm talent, but his reckless style has resulted in costly turnovers at key moments. If Stafford can master the game-management aspect of the position under a new coaching staff, he could become one of the game's elite talents.

Green Bay Packers: Aaron Rodgers

Rodgers is the epitome of a franchise quarterback, consistently guiding the Packers into the postseason despite regularly dealing with shorthanded, injury-ravaged rosters. The MVP of Super Bowl XLV never lets circumstances get in his way, whether he's overcoming poor protection along the line, the inexperience of his receivers or a leaky defense that turns most contests into shootouts. Given the expectations associated with quarterback play in the NFL, Rodgers' reliable production -- until he missed seven games last season, Rodgers had started at least 15 games each year since becoming Green Bay's top dog in 2008 -- and winning ways make him the Packers' unquestioned leader.

Next in line: Eddie Lacy. The pass-centric nature of the NFL might relegate running backs to second-class citizenship, but the fact remains that Lacy's presence in Green Bay gives the Packers a legitimate chance to capture a second Lombardi Trophy under coach Mike McCarthy. Lacy burst onto the scene in 2013 with 1,178 yards, displaying a hard-nosed running style that's ideal for postseason play en route to capturing the Offensive Rookie of the Year Award. As the 30-year-old Rodgers ages gracefully in the pocket, Lacy's emergence as an elite runner could keep the team in the mix for the foreseeable future.

Minnesota Vikings: Adrian Peterson

Whatever the status of the running back position might be in the NFL, "All Day" remains the gold standard, based on his remarkable production and considerable talent. Peterson has single-handedly carried the Vikings' offense despite lacking a credible threat at quarterback since Brett Favre hung 'em up. In 2012, fresh off a serious knee injury, Peterson posted 2,097 yards rushing -- the second-highest total ever. While he had to settle for 1,266 in 2013, he continues to play at an elite level, handling a tremendous workload that would wear down most runners. Peterson has thrived amid the chaos in Minnesota, and there's no doubt about his importance to the organization.

Next in line: Teddy Bridgewater. The Vikings have been looking for a franchise quarterback to build around since Daunte Culpepper's heyday -- and Bridgewater appears to have the goods to end the slump. The former Louisville standout is a cerebral playmaker with the arm talent and pocket presence to thrive in Vikings offensive coordinator Norv Turner's system. A poor pro-day performance severely damaged Bridgewater's draft stock, but he was still the most polished pocket passer available, and his play in offseason workouts has created a buzz. Veteran QBs Matt Cassel and Christian Ponder lack the dynamic presence and game to take the Vikings' offense to another level -- meaning Bridgewater's day could come sooner rather than later.

Follow Bucky Brooks on Twitter @BuckyBrooks.
====================
NEW DELHI: Resisting the Supreme Court’s suo motu decision to test the legal validity of triple talaq in Muslim personal law, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) has said that the country’s top court has no jurisdiction to undertake the exercise as the community’s personal law was based on the Quran and not on a law enacted by Parliament.The board also challenged the utility of a uniform civil code which, it said, was no guarantee of national integrity and solidarity, arguing that a shared faith did not prevent Christian nations engaging in two World Wars.In a similar vein, the AIMPLB said the Hindu Code Bill had failed to eradicate caste discrimination.Drawing a line between a law enacted by the legislature and social norms dictated by religion, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board through advocate Ejaz Maqbool told the Supreme Court, “Mohammedan law is founded on the Holy Quran and Ahadith of the Prophet of Islam and this cannot fall within the purview of the expression ‘laws in force’, as mentioned in Article 13 of the Constitution.” “The personal law of Muslims has not been passed or made by a legislation,” it said.“Muslim personal law is a cultural issue, it is inextricably interwoven with the religion of Islam. Thus, it is the issue of freedom of conscience guaranteed under Articles 25 and 26 read with Article 29 of the Constitution,” it said in an affidavit filed in court, quoting a series of SC judgments which apparently ruled that provisions of personal law could not be challenged for violation of fundamental rights.The SC had decided on its own to examine the rights of Muslim women, finding that there was no safeguard against arbitrary divorce by Muslim men. The 43-year-old organisation said there were periodic noises by a section of society demanding an uniform civil code. “If the SC lays down special rules for Muslim women it will amount to judicial legislation,” it said.“Is uniform civil code imperative to national unity, integrity and solidarity?” it asked and said if that been so, there would not have been two world wars between armies belonging to the same Christian religion.Countering the idea of uniform civil code, AIMPLB said the Hindu Code Bill, which was passed in 1956 to bring uniformity in personal law among different sects of Hindus, has failed to achieve integration among different sects of Hindus. “Are there not caste divisions which still exist and has caste become extinct? Is untouchability non-existent? Are there no grievances of Dalits about discriminatory treatment?,” the board said.
====================
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has suggested that the people who voted for Donald Trump and Brexit are a bunch of fascists.

Good.

Thank you, Your Grace!

It’s always nice when someone of such eminent ecclesiastical authority confirms from on high something which many of us long suspected: that the Establishment really just does not have a fucking clue – and that that’s why we were so right to vote for Trump and Brexit.

If Welby had wanted to play a clever game, what he would have done in his speech to the General Synod is keep resolutely schtum about his position on contentious political matters.

Sure, many of us could have predicted where his politics probably lay: he is, after all, an Old Etonian and a former corporatist stooge (yes, oil industry – but most of them swing left, I’m afraid), evidently gifted with the emollience and the career-safe views which are the only way a churchman can climb up the greasy poll of the Church of England these days.

So yes, we could have guessed he was probably a pro-Remain man and an anti-Donald Trump man, as pretty much every Establishment type is. But up until the moment at the General Synod when he called us all out as fascists, we couldn’t be absolutely sure…

How good does it feel to know that the Archbishop of Canterbury thinks I’m a fascist and that the people who voted for Donald Trump are fascists and that the ones who are going to vote for Geert Wilders are fascists?

It feels absolutely brilliant, actually, because what it does is help put these most extraordinary times we’re living through in their proper context.

Think about it: even a reasonably educated 15-year-old with the most rudimentary historical knowledge knows that fascism was about Il Duce, Blackshirts stomping the streets of thirties Italy, about poison gas dropped on Abyssinian villagers, about ethnic cleansing in Libya, about the terrifying enlargement of the State, about rapid militarisation, about aggressive nationalism, about the sacrifice of young men in pointless wars Italy was ill-equipped to win…

So clearly, the “f” word could scarcely be further off-beam to describe the movements which led to Brexit and the Donald Trump. These weren’t endorsements of the kind of arbitrary authority and abuse of state power we saw in the 1930s but rather very explicit rejections of them.

If you really want to use the word “fascistic” in a modern context, you could more aptly apply it to, say, the remoteness and democratic unaccountability of the European Commission, to the corruption and profligacy of the D.C. Establishment, to the businesses ruined and the lives broken by overregulation and Big Government meddling which have led to mass unemployment and poverty in what were once thriving first world nation states, to the ordinary citizens all over Europe being told by their governments, “Here is some cultural enrichment for you from some new friends from the Middle East – and if you don’t like it, tough, because that’s the future we’ve decided to impose on you”…

The fact that an intelligent, well-educated, God-fearing man like the Archbishop of Canterbury cannot see the good in Trump and Brexit and the fundamental evil in the systems they have overthrown speaks more eloquently than a thousand clever articles by people like me as to why the revolutions we experienced in 2016 and the ones we’re going to go on experiencing in 2017 are so very, very necessary.

The Archbishop of Canterbury is a decent, well-meaning man with a very lofty position in the global hierarchy: but then, so are large numbers of many of the other Establishment types who fought so hard for Remain and so hard against Donald Trump.

What they all have in common is that they’re trapped in a bubble, they’ve held on to the reins of power for far too long, and their hegemony is now quite properly being overthrown by a demos who’ve had frankly quite enough of this shit.

Justin Welby, you are part of the problem, not the solution. Thank you, your Grace, for reminding us just how deeply the rottenness in our culture is entrenched – and just how much work lies ahead of us before it is excised.
====================
Anatomy Edit

dorsal (topside) ← → ventral (underside)

External anatomy of a male stingray Stingray jaw and teeth The stingray breathes though spiracles when it hunts in seafloor sediment Stingray skeleton Jaw and teeth Edit The mouth of the stingray is located on the ventral side of the vertebrate. Stringrays exhibit euhyostyly jaw suspension, which means that the mandibular arch is only suspended by an articulation with the hyomandibula. This type of suspensions allows for the upper jaw to have high mobility and protrude outward.[6] The teeth are modified placoid scales that are regularly shed and replaced.[7] In general, the teeth have a root implanted within the connective tissue and a visible portion of the tooth, is large and flat, allowing them to crush the bodies of hard shelled prey.[8] Male stingrays display sexual dimorphism by developing cusp, or pointed ends, to some of their teeth. During mating season, some stingray species fully change their tooth morphology which then returns to baseline during non-mating seasons.[9] Spiracles Edit Stingrays can breathe through their spiracles, which are openings just behind their eyes. The respiratory system of stingrays is complicated by having two separate ways to take in water to utilize the oxygen. Most of the time stingrays take in water using their mouth and then send the water through the gills for gas exchange. This is efficient, but the mouth cannot be used when hunting because the stingrays bury themselves in the ocean sediment and wait for prey to swim by.[10] So the stingray switches to using its spiracles. With the spiracles, they can draw water free from sediment directly into their gills for gas exchange.[11] These alternate ventilation organs are less efficient than the mouth, since spiracles are unable to pull the same volume of water. However, it is enough when the stingray is quietly waiting to ambush its prey. The flattened bodies of stingrays allow them to effectively conceal themselves in their environments. Stingrays do this by agitating the sand and hiding beneath it. Because their eyes are on top of their bodies and their mouths on the undersides, stingrays cannot see their prey after capture; instead, they use smell and electroreceptors (ampullae of Lorenzini) similar to those of sharks.[12] Stingrays settle on the bottom while feeding, often leaving only their eyes and tails visible. Coral reefs are favorite feeding grounds and are usually shared with sharks during high tide.[13]

Behavior Edit

Stingray injuries Edit

Main article: Stingray injury The stinger of a stingray is known also as the spinal blade. It is located in the mid-area of the tail, and can secrete venom. The ruler measures cm. Stingrays are not usually aggressive and attack humans only when provoked, such as if a ray is accidentally stepped on.[35] Contact with the stinger causes local trauma (from the cut itself), pain, swelling, muscle cramps from the venom, and later may result in infection from bacteria or fungi.[36] The injury is very painful, but seldom life-threatening unless the stinger pierces a vital area.[35] The barb usually breaks off in the wound, and surgery may be required to remove the fragments.[37] Fatal stings are very rare.[35] The death of Steve Irwin in 2006 was only the second recorded in Australian waters since 1945.[38] The stinger penetrated his thoracic wall, causing massive trauma.[39] Venom Edit The venom of the stingray has been relatively unstudied due to the mixture of venomous tissue secretions cells and mucous membrane cell products that occurs upon secretion from the spinal blade. Stingrays can have anywhere between 1-3 blades. The spine is covered with the epidermal skin layer. During secretion, the venom punctures through the epidermis and mixes with the mucus to release the venom on its victim. Typically, other venomous organisms create and store their venom in a gland. The stingray is notable in that it stores its venom within tissue cells. The toxins that have been confirmed to be within the venom are cystatins, peroxiredoxin, and galectin.[40] Galectin induces cell death in its victims and cystatins inhibit defense enzymes. In humans, these toxins lead to increased blood flow in the superficial capillaries and cell death.[41] Despite the number of cells and toxins that are within the stingray, there is little relative energy required to produce and store the venom. The venom is produced and stored in the secretory cells of the vertebral column at the mid-distal region. These secretory cells are housed within the ventrolateral grooves of the spine. The cells of both marine and freshwater stingrays are round and contain a great amount of granule-filled cytoplasm.[42] The cells of marine stingrays are located only within these lateral grooves of the stinger.[43] The cells of freshwater stingray branch out beyond the lateral grooves to cover a larger surface area along the entire blade. Due to this large area and an increased number of proteins within the cells, the venom of freshwater stingrays has a greater toxicity than that of marine stingrays.[42]

As food Edit

Dried strips of stingray meat served as food in Japan Rays are edible, and may be caught as food using fishing lines or spears. Stingray recipes abound throughout the world, with dried forms of the wings being most common. For example, in Malaysia and Singapore, stingray is commonly grilled over charcoal, then served with spicy sambal sauce, or soy sauce. Generally, the most prized parts of the stingray are the wings, the "cheek" (the area surrounding the eyes), and the liver. The rest of the ray is considered too rubbery to have any culinary uses.[44] While not independently valuable as a food source,[citation needed] the stingray's capacity to damage shell fishing grounds[45] can lead to bounties being placed on their removal.[citation needed]

Ecotourism Edit

Divers can interact with stingrays at Stingray City in the Cayman Islands. Stingrays are usually very docile and curious, their usual reaction being to flee any disturbance, but they sometimes brush their fins past any new object they encounter. Nevertheless, certain larger species may be more aggressive and should be approached with caution, as the stingray's defensive reflex (use of its venomous stinger) may result in serious injury or death.[46]

Other uses Edit

Fossils Edit

Gallery Edit

See also Edit

References Edit

Bibliography Edit
====================
Tonight’s second leg of the Superclásico Copa Libertadores matchup between Argentine powerhouses Boca Juniors and River Plate was suspended as the visitors were attacked by pepper spray-wielding Boca supporters.

The incident occurred as River Plate attempted to enter the stadium after a scoreless first half. Boca fans appear to have found a gap in the security tunnel that gave access to the pitch, and flooded it with pepper spray. Numerous River Plate players could be seen gasping and sobbing, with others wearing spray-stained shirts.

The match hasn’t resumed yet, and it’s not clear if it will—though at the moment, there’s no safe way to get River Plate off the middle of the pitch. The Superclásico is famously one of the soccer world’s most bitter and dangerous rivalries.

[Fox Deportes]

Update (10:01 p.m.): Fox Deportes announcers keep calling the situation “incompetent.” You can see Boca fans still cutting holes in the tunnel and there are no police to be found anywhere.

Advertisement

Update (10:12 p.m.): River Plate players have been stranded in the middle of the pitch for more than an hour now. There is no safe way to get them off the pitch, as the tunnel has been compromised.

Update (10:45 p.m.): We still don’t know if River Plate players made it off the pitch. The last thing Fox Deportes showed before switching to coverage of the next match was this:

Advertisement
====================
Two sources tell CBS News the U.S. is preparing to announce a major withdrawal of staff and family from the U.S. embassy in Cuba in response to attacks targeting diplomats. Only essential personnel will be left.

An internal memo was sent to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson suggesting a drawing down of personnel in Havana. The meeting this week between Tillerson and Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Eduardo Rodriguez Parrilla did nothing to help assure the U.S. that Cuban officials are doing enough to protect the safety and welfare of U.S. diplomats in their country. Though Cuba is allowing U.S. investigators into the country, it has not convinced the U.S. that it's taken any real action to prevent the health attacks.

In fact, the Cuban readout of the meeting contained a complete denial that the attacks were taking place.

"The Cuban government has never perpetrated nor will it ever perpetrate attacks of any kind against diplomats," it read. "The Cuban government has never permitted nor will it ever permit the use of its territory by third parties for this purpose."

The readout went on to say that Cuban authorities had so far found, "There is no evidence so far of the cause or the origin of the health disorders reported by the U.S. diplomats."

Diplomats have complained about symptoms ranging from hearing loss and nausea to headaches and balance issues after the State Department said "incidents" began affecting them in late 2016. In total, the State Department says there are 21 medically confirmed cases. The attacks were directed at their homes, which the Cuban government provides. The last reported incident was in August.

The U.S. investigation, led by the FBI, is ongoing. At this time, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert says Tillerson is still reviewing his options on how best to protect American personnel in Cuba."
====================
What the mind likes is to be at peace; and its not being permitted rest I call obstruction of the mind’s nature. – Yang Chu, The Art of Life Yang Chu replied: “According to the laws of nature there is no such thing as immortality.” – Yang Chu, The Folly of Desire for Long Life

In the past, I’ve shared a blog series titled Contemplations on Tao. In reality, the blog was based on the Tao Te Ching, and although TTC is solid ground to consider Taoism, the tradition is much more rich and diverse than merely that single book. Also, as I wrote the series, it seemed to me like there was a stronger connection between Epicurean philosophy and Taoism than most people recognized–particularly when considered against the backdrop of the “philosophies of the polis”, Confucianism, Stoicism, Platonism, etc. Tao and Epicurus trust nature, whereas these other ways felt forced, unnatural.

One of the most divergent thinkers in Taoist philosophy was a contemporary of Epicurus known as Yang Chu (sometimes spelled Zhu), a hedonist and highly individualistic philosopher–perhaps too much, for traditional Chinese society–who drew his views from naturalism and from his understanding of human nature. He proposed an individualist alternative to the ethics of the Mohists (universalists) and Confucians (who stressed social order). Yang Chu is the connection to Tao I was looking for. Not only that: he constitutes an untapped literary source from which we can study “Epicurean” philosophy with a fresh perspective, with its own anecdotes, parables, and wise, Yoda-like-sounding aphorisms.

In addition to giving us as legacy a treasure trove of Taoist literature, Yang Chu is alone among the ancient sages of China in calling pleasure the end of life, and also–like his Greek counterparts–he acknowledges the natural limits of desires and pleasures in his chapter on the Brevity of Conscious Life. According to EB:

Yang felt that human beings should live pleasurably, which for him implied a life in which both selfish inaction and selfless intervention in human affairs would be contrary extremes; instead, one should lead a natural life by cultivating and following one’s innate natural tendencies.

Although these teachings may seem out of place in Taoism according to some, in reality the teaching on these two extremes reminds us of our Taoist essays on military advise and on laissez faire: his thought is rooted in Tao, and in the view that we do not need to intervene in nature for it to run its course either via self-sacrifice or via selfish inaction (or withdrawal). It is in our nature to intervene when needed, and to take care of our own priorities when prudent. A similar logic is applied to the five senses: their obstruction is seen as going against nature and against Tao.

IEP summarizes the seventh chapter of Liezi, which is believed to have been authored by him, this way:

… It espouses a hedonistic philosophy: Life is short; Live for pleasure alone; Don’t waste time cultivating virtues.

The seventh chapter of the Lieh Tzu–a lesser-known source for Taoism than the Tao Te Ching–underwent a 1912 English translation by Anton Forke, who titled it Yang Chu’s Garden of Pleasure, and divided it into 19 short chapters. Some of the themes mirror Epicurean teachings to the point of being near-identical parallel doctrines. One example is in their joint rejection of fame and of traditional virtue as taught by other schools. The following passage reminds us of Polystratus’ indictment of blind pursuit of virtue without the study of nature.

CHAPTER V: FALSE VIRTUES YANG CHU said: Po Yi was not without desire, for being too proud of his purity of mind, he was led to death by starvation. Chan-Chi was not passionless, for being too proud of his virtue he happened to reduce his family. Those who in pursuit of purity and virtue do good in a false way resemble these men.

As did the ancient Cyrenaics, Yang Chu’s philosophizing took the body as the starting point. For instance, Yang Chu articulates a defense of non-violence as an ethical principle and a rejection of brute force, argued from the perspective of human nature (chapter 16): since humans lack fangs, claws, and other natural defenses, man therefore must live by his wisdom. We find here a Taoist-libertarian theory of non-aggression (whose political, societal, and practical repercussions are many) rooted in the study of nature. Although the body is at the root of Chu’s intellectual life, the end result still constitutes an embodied and practical wisdom and philosophy that goes well beyond merely entertaining the seductions of the senses, which is how hedonists are typically stereotyped.

We also find a passage somewhat reminiscent of Jesus’ Gospels when the philosopher is arguing that we must not treat the dead as we do the living, which was a common superstition of his day.

CHAPTER VII: DUTY TO THE LIVING AND THE DEAD So we may give the feverish rest, satiety to the hungry, warmth to the cold, and assistance to the miserable; but for the dead, when we have rightly bewailed them, to what use is it to place pearls and jewels in their mouths, or to dress them in state robes, or offer animals in sacrifice, or to expose effigies of paper?

In another chapter, we find a clash between a so-called “virtuous” king and his two pleasure-seeking brothers, who tell him:

CHAPTER IX: THE HAPPY VOLUPTUARIES It is very difficult to preserve life, and easy to come by one’s death. Yet who would think of awaiting death, which comes so easily, on account of the difficulty of preserving life? You value proper conduct and righteousness in order to excel before others, and you do violence to your feelings and nature in striving for glory. That to us appears to be worse than death. … See now. If anybody knows how to regulate external things, the things do not of necessity become regulated, and his body has still to toil and labour. But if anybody knows how to regulate internals, the things go on all right, and the mind obtains peace and rest.

The last paragraph resonates with the 20th Principal Doctrine of Epicurus. They seem to be arguing before their brother, the king, that it is best to stay away from political life, and that by fulfilling so many duties and virtues and expectations from others, these externalities rob us of happiness and compete against our true nature. At the end of the chapter, the king has gone to a sage to ask for guidance concerning his brothers, who are leading lives of indulgence. Here’s the verdict:

Teng-hsi said: “You are living together with real men without knowing it. Who calls you wise? Cheng has been governed by chance, and without merit of yours.”

In this passage, we see also a proto-Nietzschean repudiation of artificial, man-made morality–here, not merely as a reaction against the repression of nature that the dominant philosophy imposes on us, but positively in favor of the Taoist virtue of ziran, naturalness and authenticity. This acting in accordance to nature is the main platform from which Yang Chu philosophizes.

If Cyrene is, as Michel Onfray argues, a philosophical Atlantis, then perhaps Yang Chu’s city of Liang is a philosophical Shangri-La and, just like with the Cyrenaics, his long-dismissed school of Taoist thought deserves a second look.

Further Reading:

Yang Chu’s Garden of Pleasure: 7th Chapter of Lieh Tzu

Contemplations on Tao
====================
A construction worker works on building a new house in Calgary, Alberta, April 7, 2015. House prices have fallen in Calgary after the price of oil plummeted late last year according to local media reports. REUTERS/Todd Korol

OTTAWA (Reuters) - The value of Canadian building permits jumped more than expected in December, driven by increased construction intentions for multi-family homes across much of the country, data from Statistics Canada showed on Monday.

The 11.3 percent rise topped economists’ forecasts for a gain of 5.6 percent, though it was not enough to completely offset the 19.9 percent decline seen in November.

Residential building permits climbed 16.3 percent as plans to build multi-family dwellings such as apartments and condominiums rebounded by 39.1 percent. Intentions to build single-family homes edged down 0.1 percent.

Non-residential building permits rose 2.5 percent as higher construction intentions for commercial buildings eclipsed decreased plans in the institutional and industrial sectors.

Alberta, which has been hit by the downturn in the energy sector, recovered some of the previous month’s decline as the total value of building permits jumped 26 percent. Overall, building permits rose in eight provinces, with Alberta racking up the biggest gain.

For 2015 as a whole, building permits totaled C$85 billion ($60.96 billion), little changed from a year earlier, the statistics agency said. A 4.4 percent increase in residential construction plans was offset by a 6.3 percent decline in the non-residential segment.
====================
It was a standard GIST evening. Stacks of cake, cookies and sweet treats, and a brilliant topic of conversation – favourite female scientists. As a mathematician I wanted to talk about someone in my field, and as a long term fan-boy the choice was easy. Let me tell you about Emmy Noether.

To call Noether one of the greatest female mathematicians of all time would do her a disservice. Noether is simply one of the greatest mathematicians of all time, and she should be more famous.

Her most celebrated piece of work is known as Noether’s Theorem, and it is incredibly beautiful and important, both philosophically and practically. At its core, Noether’s Theorem tells us that from symmetries we get conservation properties. This sounds a little dry (and perhaps a little dull), but it is incredible.

Write down all of the equations that govern the universe. We don’t actually know what all of these equations are (yet, or maybe ever), but this doesn’t stop Noether’s Theorem from telling us about them.

By knowing that the same physical laws apply in London as in Paris, Berlin, or anywhere else, Noether’s Theorem tells us that momentum must always be conserved in the universe. And by knowing that the physical laws that hold today will be the same as the ones that hold tomorrow, Noether’s Theorem tells us that energy is conserved throughout the universe. We do not necessarily know the equations of the universe, but by Noether’s Theorem, we know some of their consequences.

Before Noether, conservation of momentum and energy were assumptions about the universe, now they are direct results of her theorem. Noether taught us some of the most fundamental properties of our universe, by using only her mind, some calculus, and a chalkboard.

Noether’s Theorem is amazing, but in no way Noether’s only contribution to mathematics. In fact, she discovered and developed so much that her work is often described in three “epochs”. The body of theorems, equations and results that Noether amassed would be astounding for anyone. But when you look at the constant bombardment of discrimination she had to put up with simply for being a woman, it is hugely humbling.

When Noether was at university she was one of only two women at the University of Erlangen consisting of 986 students. She wasn’t allowed to participate fully in classes, allowed only to sit-in and not ask any questions, and she had to specifically ask each lecturer for permission to attend. After gaining her degree, she spent 7 years teaching at the university without any pay, but she still managed to publish some papers. It was this work that lead two mathematicians, David Hilbert and Felix Klein, to invite her to join the mathematics department at the University of Göttingen, but since Noether was a woman there were some serious objections.

One faculty member is reported to have said “What will our soldiers think when they return to the university and find that they are required to learn at the feet of a woman? “ commenting on the fact that soldiers were out fighting in the first world war. But legend has it that David Hilbert, a mathematical icon of the time, came to her deference by saying “I do not see that the sex of the candidate is an argument against her admission…after all, we are a university, not a bathhouse!“ *

Objections aside, Noether moved to Göttingen and continued to lecture without being paid, but still maintained her assault on the frontiers of mathematics. Despite the bold discoveries that she was making, her authority was constantly undermined solely because of her gender. She had to give her lectures under David Hilbert’s name, just to maintain some sense of “credibility”.

Noether did eventually get a paid role at the university, but this was only after more than a decade of working for free, and displaying the talents of one of the greatest mathematicians of all time.

Emmy Noether was an amazing person. The impact of her work is still felt today in many different areas of mathematics. For maths PhD students (like myself) she is an inspiring figure, and it is intimidating to think of her achievements. At the start of her illustrious (mostly unpaid) career she wrote a PhD thesis and in her own words she described it as “crap”. I aspire to be just a tiny percentage of the mathematician that Emmy Noether was. I know it will be difficult, but if I put my mind to it, I think I too might be able to write a crap thesis, even if revolutionising mathematics in what will later be described as three separate epochs seems a little less likely.

*After joining the University of Göttingen Emmy regularly swam at a men-only pool, because why-the-hell not!
====================
His girlfriend, he said, worked with Christopher Reeve a few months ago and asked the actor to help her understand what she could expect when ''Dune'' was released. ''She wanted to know what was happening to me,'' Mr. MacLachlan said. ''Reeve told her I would be impossible to live with for the next year.'' He paused. ''She and I have already broken up.''

Son of a stockbroker, born and raised in Yakima, Wash., and a graduate of the University of Washington's theater-arts program, Mr. MacLachlan was performing in ''Tartuffe'' at a Seattle theater when he was asked to audition for ''Dune.'' Out of school less than a year, he had already spent seven months at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival with roles that included Romeo in ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Rejected Because of Haircut

Raffaella De Laurentiis, the producer of ''Dune,'' and David Lynch, the movie's director, had spent almost a year searching for their Paul Atreides. ''We wanted somebody unknown, somebody who had the look of a Messiah, and somebody who could act,'' Miss De Laurentiis said. ''In Kyle's first screentest, we could see that the kid could act. You have to act or nobody will believe you're the new Messiah. The look was there too, but he had a punk haircut that didn't help.''

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

At first Dino De Laurentiis rejected Mr. MacLachlan because of the haircut, but with a new haircut and another screen test, the role was his.

Of all the central members of the cast and crew, Kyle MacLachlan alone loved the book. ''I've read it once a year since I was 13,'' he said. ''Paul was my hero. His power, his mental and physical capabilities were what I wanted. Eight years ago I read in the newspaper that 'Dune' had been sold, that someone was going to make it into a movie. I thought: 'Shoot! I'm too young. It's out of my reach.' ''

Because of his passion for ''Dune'' - he read a dog-eared paperback eight more times during the seven months he spent at Churubusco Studios in Mexico City, where the film was made last year - Mr. MacLachlan was more disturbed by the omissions and changes from novel to film than anyone else involved with the movie. A Difficult Compromise

Draped in a magenta shirt of some gauze and net material and quilted breeches that looked vaguely decadent, he sat on the set last summer and muttered: ''No Freman would be caught dead in gauze. For a Freman, relaxed discipline means taking off his face mask.''

The Fremen are the wild tribes of Arrakis brought under control by Paul Atreides. The most difficult compromise for the movie's Paul was the need of movie audiences to see his face. In the novel, helmets, face masks, catchtubes and noseplugs keep even one drop of moisture from evaporating. ''Because I'm a 'Dune' freak, I want it exactly like the book,'' he said. ''My intellect tells me there are concessions that have to be made, but no helmet and no face mask was a difficult concession.''

Mr. MacLachlan is now in New York, unrecognized, auditioning for plays like any other unknown young actor. And auditioning just as unsuccessfully, although, he says happily, he was called back to read a second time for ''Biloxi Blues,'' the play that is a sequel to Neil Simon's ''Brighton Beach Memoirs.''

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

''I ask myself what Paul would do right now,'' said Mr. MacLachlan, who calls himself a direct descendant of Johann Sebastian Bach on his mother's side. ''He would probably use this waiting time to improve himself. So I'm going to do a production of 'Mass Appeal' in Seattle, and I'm stepping up my music and I'm studying Italian so I can converse with the Italian crew on the next 'Dune' movie.''
====================
**Samsung QLED is a Quantum Dot based TV.



†No Interest if Paid in Full within 6, 12, 18 or 24 Months: Available on purchases of select products charged to a Samsung Financing account. On purchases of $250 to $499.99 for 6-month and $500 or more for 12-month, 18-month, or 24-month. To avoid interest, you must pay the full promo balance before the promo period ends. If you do not, you will be charged interest from the purchase date at the standard Purchase APR. After the promo period ends, the standard APR also applies to the remaining balance and the charged interest. You are required to make minimum payments, but minimum payments will not pay off the balance on time. You must make larger payments to avoid the interest. Advertised monthly payment, if any, is greater than your required minimum monthly payment and excludes taxes, delivery or other charges. Limited Time Offer. Regular account terms apply to non-promo purchases. Minimum interest charge: $1. Standard Purchase APR: 29.99%. Prior purchases excluded. Account must be in good standing. Subject to credit approval. Samsung Financing account issued by TD Bank, N.A.



⊕0% APR for 24 or 36 Months with Equal Payments: Available on purchases of select products charged to a Samsung Financing account. Minimum purchase: $350 for 24 month, $1,299 for 36 month. 0% APR from date of eligible purchase until paid in full. Monthly payment equals the eligible purchase amount multiplied by a repayment factor and rounded to the nearest penny (repayment factors: .04167 for 24 month, .02778 for 36 month). Last payment may be less. Total amount of payments will not exceed eligible purchase amount. Other transactions and fees affect overall minimum payment amount. Advertised payment amount excludes taxes, delivery or other charges. Limited time offer. Regular account terms apply to non-promo purchases. Minimum interest charge: $1. Standard Purchase APR: 29.99%. Prior purchases excluded. Account must be in good standing. Subject to credit approval. Samsung Financing account issued by TD Bank, N.A.

ᵝLimited time only, while supplies last, exclusively on Samsung.com and the Shop Samsung App (excluding in-person Samsung Studios transactions made using the App). You must opt-in to the Samsung Upgrade Program, apply and be approved for a financing account (“Financing Account”) under the Samsung Financing Program and make an initial purchase of an eligible Samsung television (“Initial Device”) on a 36 month payment plan using your Financing Account. After 24 months from the date Samsung ships your Initial Device to you, if your Financing Account is in good standing and you purchase a new eligible Samsung television that is of equal value to or greater value than your Initial Device (“Upgrade Device”) under the Upgrade Program on a new 36 month payment plan using the Financing Account, then you will receive an upgrade credit (“Upgrade Credit”) equal to the balance of the purchase price of your Initial Device plus applicable taxes and shipping charges (“Initial Amount”) that remains outstanding on your Financing Account, up to a maximum of 33% of the Initial Amount (“Maximum Credit”). Neither the Initial Device nor the Upgrade Device may be resold. The Upgrade Program may be modified or cancelled at any time in Samsung’s sole discretion. Additional terms apply. Void where prohibited. See the Upgrade Terms at http://www.samsung.com/us/tv-upgrade/terms-and-conditions/.

1Product is shown with optional accessories. Screen images are simulated.

Samsung is an Official Sponsor of ESPN College Football. ESPN, the ESPN logo and ESPN College Football are registered trademarks of ESPN, Inc.


====================
Image copyright AFP Image caption The graves of some of the villagers murdered by Bales

When soldiers heard the man who massacred Afghan villagers was Robert Bales, they weren't surprised. Newly released documents shed light on the volatile officer and the surreal environment he lived in.

US Staff Sgt Robert Bales left Camp Belambay in Kandahar Province late at night on 11 March 2012. Then he shot 16 Afghan villagers, mostly children.

The carnage has been described as "this generation's My Lai", a reference to the 1968 killing of Vietnamese civilians.

In a military court in August 2013 Bales was sentenced to life in prison with no parole.

''He liked murder,'' said a prosecutor in the courtroom in Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Washington. ''He liked the power.''

Bales had gone on four deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan, and his lawyers said he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. On Tuesday the US Central Command released documents about their investigation. It included 569 pages of witness testimony.

These materials were released after representatives of Tacoma News Tribune and other news organisations filed federal Freedom of Information Act requests.

Maybe the investigation wasn't complete - despite 500 pages Eugene Fidell, Yale Law School

The documents paint a portrait of Bales as an unstable individual and depict an atmosphere of drinking and drug-taking in the unit. When news of the shootings got out, according to the report, soldiers said "It must be SSG Bales."

"He's the only one crazy enough to do it," they said.

The officers who wrote the report said that discipline in the unit was sometimes lax, describing "low standards of personal conduct". The officers concluded, however, that the low standards in the unit "had no effect" on Bales' decision to carry out the crimes.

Yet legal experts say the documents provide context for the story told in the military courtroom - including a lack of leadership in the unit.

Officers who worked in the unit "took a 'hands-off' approach" on many issues, such as alcohol and drug use, according to the report.

The officers who were in charge should have been more aggressive in their efforts to guide the soldiers, say some military veterans, especially in a tough combat environment.

The report "reflects a dearth of leadership", says Gary Solis, a former military judge who now teaches law at Georgetown University. When an outfit turns an eye to smaller problems, he says, it leads to bigger problems.

Image copyright AP Image caption Soldiers described Robert Bales, shown on the left, as an "angry drunk". He has been sentenced to life in prison

Bales seemed tense and prone to violence, according to the report. He said he was unhappy in his marriage and "was behind on mortgage payments".

One person who was interviewed by the military investigators described Bales as his mentor, and said he was passionate about his work.

But he added "all it takes is the flip of a switch or a trigger for that passion to go from being used for good to being used toward something not-so-good".

One of the officers who knew Bales said he was an "angry drunk". Other soldiers said "they could smell alcohol on SSG Bales' breath from time to time when he came into their housing area" and heard him say things like: "'Hey, you're a worthless piece of white trash.'"

"He's a moody person," said another person who was interviewed by military investigators. "He would get mad if you didn't do things his way."

Image copyright AP Image caption Robert Bales, shown after his arrest, had served multiple deployments

Another soldier was more direct - "I don't think anybody really liked the guy." Yet many of the top leaders in the unit didn't seem to be aware of any problems associated with Bales.

According to the report, junior officers were reluctant to report issues because in many cases "their higher infantry leadership was committing the misconduct, and they did not feel empowered to 'jump the chain'".

The mood in the unit was tense - and surreal as a Joseph Heller novel. As the authors of the report explained, one of the commanders was known for "walking around smoking a pipe while yelling at soldiers for smoking".

Meanwhile a soldier was bit by a pet monkey at a checkpoint and had to be evacuated out of the area for medical care. The officer who wrote a memo about the incident said "it kind of paints a picture of the atmosphere in the area".

Eugene Fidell, who teaches military law at Yale Law School, says the report raises questions about the investigation that was conducted into the crimes.

"When news got out, someone said - 'It must be Bales.' Really? What was it that led somebody to say that?" says Fidell. "Maybe the investigation wasn't complete - despite 500 pages."
====================
Thinking Outside the Borders

The day after the U.S. midterm elections, the Federal Reserve is yet again buying securities (it has bought more than $2 trillion of them since 2008), to keep down interest rates. U.S. interest rates have now been at historic lows for two years, a huge gift to the financial industry — but one that has done little to help the broader economy. Not coincidentally, investment banking bonuses are at record levels, while unemployment remains above 9 percent (officially, that is: the real rate is probably 15 percent), home foreclosures are at record levels, and there has still not been a single criminal prosecution — not one — for the reckless behavior that caused the financial crisis.

It is blindingly clear that America needs different and better economic leaders — preferably leaders not compromised by past errors and conflicts of interest. Yet the overwhelming majority of the Obama team, not to mention Wall Street and academia, is composed of people who were part of the problem, or at best remained silent. Well, I have a suggestion as to where excellent replacements can be found: outside the United States.

Others already recognize that talent and honesty know no borders. Recently, I spent a week in London while my new documentary about the disastrous decisions and systemic corruption that caused the global financial crisis, Inside Job, premiered at the London Film Festival. During my stay, I met with Ruby Films, which is run by a very witty, accomplished man who had previously managed the funding of independent films at the UK Film Council. All well and good; but now comes the interesting part: He’s not British; he’s Dutch. But the UK Film Council had concluded that he was the best person for the job.

The United States needs to learn this lesson, and in areas far more important than movies. It might be difficult for us to swallow our pride, but for some of the most important policy decisions facing the United States, the right people for the job might be foreigners.

This idea will doubtless meet resistance among U.S. academic and policy elites, in part because it is contrary to their own financial and career interests. But over the last several years, in the course of making two heavily-researched documentaries about the effect of American behavior on the world (the first about the occupation of Iraq, the second about the global financial crisis), I have come to realize that there has been a deep shift in how the world views America’s economic, financial, and foreign policy elites. Washington’s days as unquestioned role model for the world are over.

The rest of the world has a lot to teach America. In some domains, such as the "lean production" system pioneered by Japanese manufacturers, this is of course old news. But in economics, finance, and regulation, American experts still portray themselves as the gold standard. This is highly debatable, for two reasons. First, American experts and their thinking are often dangerously parochial. And secondly, to be unpleasantly blunt, the United States now has a major systemic corruption problem not only in its financial industry but also among its regulators and economists, from which supposedly impartial policy experts are often drawn. All too frequently, America’s top experts have been paid off, with varying degrees of subtlety, by the industries they are supposed to be evaluating. Nowhere is this clearer than in American debate about the financial crisis.

The overwhelming majority of America’s most prominent economists and financiers were astonishingly silent during the bubble, and many of them were deeply complicit in it, either through their policy roles, their highly profitable financial-sector involvements, or both. Not surprisingly, they have since opposed fundamental reform and been remarkably gentle in their assessments of American banking and regulatory conduct.

For example, Larry Summers was instrumental in crafting the late 1990s legislation that repealed the Glass-Steagall Act, which had kept a firewall between investment banks and lenders since the Great Depression, and banned the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives. Later, as president and economist at Harvard, he made $20 million from hedge funds and investment banks, while denouncing the first warnings against the coming crisis, issued in 2005 by the chief economist of the IMF, as Luddite.

Other senior administration officials have similar conflicts of interest and/or have dismissed warnings about the crisis. Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke said in 2005 that housing prices never declined nationwide (which was not true, even then). Jacob Lew, nominated to be head of the Office of Management and Budget, and Michael Froman, coordinator of economic policy at the National Security Council, both made serious money while their employer at the time, Citigroup Alternative Investments, lost billions when the bubble collapsed. Laura Tyson, a professor at Univerisity of California, Berkeley who was director of the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration and may well replace Summers, has been on the board of Morgan Stanley for over a decade, and likewise remained utterly silent during the bubble.

Glenn Hubbard, chief economic advisor to the Bush administration and now dean of Columbia Business School, has multiple advisory relationships with financial services firms, which bring him over a half a million dollars a year, and is a much sought-after commentator on economic policy. Yet in 2004, he co-authored an article with William C. Dudley, then the chief economist of Goldman Sachs, extolling the virtues of deregulation and financial derivatives.

These are not isolated examples. Over the last quarter-century, the academic and governmental elites of the United States have been progressively coopted and corrupted by powerful interest groups, particularly but not solely the financial services industry. In part, this is because the United States suffers from both the blessing and curse of its size, wealth, power, and parochialism.

Want proof of why we should look to foreign economic advisors? The five most prominent experts in the United States who warned about the dangers of financial deregulation and the impending financial crisis were Raghuram Rajan, Simon Johnson, Nouriel Roubini, George Soros, and Charles Morris. Rajan, a professor at the University of Chicago, is from India, and is now an advisor to India’s prime minister. Johnson is from Australia, Roubini is an Iranian raised in Italy, and Soros is a Hungarian refugee educated in England. Morris, the only one of the five born and raised in the United States, is an outsider too in his own way, not affiliated with any academic economics department.

And yet the United States continues to behave as if the only people who can run the government, or give it good advice, are Americans. This is an extraordinarily foolish, outdated, and dangerous illusion.

Upon hearing this call for outside help, some might panic. So just for the record, no, we should not have an Iranian energy secretary or a North Korean defense secretary. But it might make excellent sense to have a European or Asian as treasury secretary, or chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the FDIC, or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. At the very least, serving as a senior advisor to the president.

In mid-2009, I took a small film crew traveling for six weeks, filming interviews for Inside Job with senior government officials and economic experts around the world. I was struck by how much more accurate, direct, and honest many of the foreigners were. They also had a higher level of international training, experience, and awareness than the senior U.S. officials I interviewed. They spoke foreign languages, had been educated internationally, and had lived and worked for extended periods in other countries (including the United States). And they certainly didn’t feel any need to bow down before America’s economists and financiers, who had, after all, just nearly destroyed their countries’ economies.

Take the prime minister of Singapore, for example. Lee Hsien Loong was educated in England and rotated through many ministerial positions before leading the country. He and his advisors studied American securitization and decided it wasn’t for them; consequently Singapore, like most of Asia, avoided purchasing the toxic financial products that American banks peddled. Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, speaks fluent English and lived for years in Chicago running an American insurance company. As she says in my film, she warned then-Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson in February 2008 of a coming "tsunami," only to have him tell her that she didn’t need to worry. And Martin Wolf, the British writer and chief economic commentator of the Financial Times, described the housing bubble on camera, as a "gigantic national, in fact global, Ponzi scheme." When was the last time you heard Larry Summers, Ben Bernanke, or Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, or say that?

Or look to Andrew Sheng, chief advisor to China’s banking regulator. In my two-hour interview with him in Beijing, Sheng was brilliant, perceptive, and extraordinarily direct. But the most striking thing about Andrew Sheng was that he is not Chinese; he is Malaysian. After growing up in Malaysia, he worked for the Malaysian Central Bank, the World Bank in Washington, then was deputy director of Hong Kong’s central bank, and wrote a superb book on the Asian financial crisis of the 1990s — all before taking his current job in Beijing.

Of course, there are economic and financial experts in America who are untainted by these systemic problems. But there are surprisingly few who feel truly free to speak their mind and act on their principles, without fear of professional isolation or retribution. So I have a suggestion for Larry Summers’ replacement: Andrew Sheng. If he’s not available, try Christine Lagarde.
====================
The Daily News has learned that the Jets have expressed a real interest in Packers free-agent wide receiver James Jones.



The Jets, who released Santonio Holmes this week, desperately need to bolster its receiving corps to inject life into one of the league's worst pass offenses from last season. The team has only one reliable wideout (Jeremy Kerley) on the roster. David Nelson and Stephen Hill are the only others on the roster with quality game experience.



The 6-1, 208-pound Jones has 310 receptions and 37 touchdowns in seven seasons with the Packers. Jones, who will turn 30 later this month, had 59 receptions for a career-high 817 yards and three touchdowns in 14 games last season. He had a league-high 14 receiving touchdowns in 2012.



The Jets are hosting Eric Decker, arguably the top receiver in this year's free agent class, on Wednesday. The team has not scheduled a visit with Jones at this point, according to sources.



http:://twitter.com/MMehtaNYDN
====================
Spread the love











Politician Bernie Sanders is very good at identifying problems, and that is why a lot of people like him. He talks about problems that many people are concerned about, mostly involving the enormous and unjust power of large corporations. However, all of his solutions put more power in the hands of the government, which would ultimately put more power in the hands of these corporations in the long run.

When it comes to reigning in mega corporations, lowering the barrier to entry for small businesses is the real solution, and nothing Sanders is proposing would lower the barrier to entry or make it easier for people to become independent and own businesses of their own. In fact, it would make it harder.

The taxes and regulations proposed by Sanders would actually give mega-corporations an advantage over small businesses, through a process called regulatory capture.

According to Nobel laureate economist George Stigler, “Regulatory capture is a form of political corruption that occurs when a regulatory agency, created to act in the public interest, instead advances the commercial or political concerns of special interest groups that dominate the industry or sector it is charged with regulating. Regulatory capture is a form of government failure; it creates an opening for firms or political groups to behave in ways injurious to the public (e.g., producing negative externalities). The agencies are called captured agencies.”

It may be counter-intuitive, but regulations and high taxes empower mega corporations, by making it more difficult for new businesses to start and compete with them. Mega corporations like Monsanto, Exxon or Bank of America for example, all have teams of lawyers and billions of dollars on hand just to deal with bribing regulators, paying fines and finding and creating legal loopholes to protect themselves from lawsuits. This type of damage control is literally built into their budgets, and it is a drop in the bucket for them, chump change.

The average small business owner or person who wants to start a business does not have access to these types of resources, so having to comply with licensing requirements, registrations, regulations, and other obstacles prevents them from ever even getting their business off the ground. Meanwhile, the mega corporations handle these issues as a part of their standard operating procedure. In the long run, this creates a situation where it is impossible for small businesses to compete with already entrenched and protected corporations.

In the US, to cut hair, for example, you need to go through hundreds of hours of schooling, pay the government for a license, and jump through various other hoops just for the “privilege” of conducting business. This prevents hairdressers from working out of their home or office, and actually many times forces them to work for large corporations instead of working independently. Obviously, this puts the individual at a disadvantage while giving the protected corporation an upper hand, because now they have an employee instead of a competitor. This dynamic can be seen across every industry that is regulated by government, which is pretty much every industry.

For a politician to actually have an impact on the power of protected corporations, they would have to actually remove those protections, which in most cases, come in the form of taxes and regulations. There is nothing that protected corporations fear more than losing their monopoly and being forced to compete with millions of aspiring entrepreneurs from the lower and middle classes.

The restrictions that are placed on the market by governments, including taxes and regulations of various kinds, raise the barrier to entry and make it so only people with vast resources can own their own business. To truly empower the struggling people of the world, we do not need to give them slightly higher paying jobs for mega-corporations like McDonalds, as many people in favor of higher minimum wage laws would suggest. Instead, we need to make it more possible for them become independent and employ their neighbors who are also struggling. This would not only create more options and opportunities for employment among individuals in the working class but would also disrupt the many monopolies that have been established by the government and their protected corporations.

John Vibes is an author and researcher who organizes a number of large events including the Free Your Mind Conference. He also has a publishing company where he offers a censorship free platform for both fiction and non-fiction writers. You can contact him and stay connected to his work at his Facebook page. You can purchase his books, or get your own book published at his website www.JohnVibes.com.
====================
Schools reach 'crisis point' with sharp increase in students dealing with anxiety, depression

Updated

Schools are struggling to cope with a sharp rise in anxiety, depression and self-harm among students as young as 10 years old, with one principal saying Australia has reached a "crisis point".

In April a joint report by Mission Australia and the Black Dog Institute found nearly one in four Australian teenagers met the criteria for having a "probable serious mental illness" — a 20 per cent increase from five years ago.

The principal of Canberra's Merici College, Loretta Wholley, said those figures aligned with her experiences in secondary education, but mental health issues were also presenting in younger students.

"Anxiety and depression and self-harm is coming through from primary school," she said.

"This used to be an issue for years nine, 10 and 11. Now it is an issue for grades four, five and six."

Ms Wholley said her concern was that mental illness in children and teenagers would "cycle to a point where it gets out of control".

"It is at crisis point," she said.

"One in four, or 25 per cent, of our population is a huge number if you really think about that in terms of a family or any group in society."

It is an experience also shared at the ACT's public schools, with UC Kaleen High School principal Lana Read saying up to 30 per cent of students could be dealing with mental health concerns.

"We deal with young people who come to us with concerns ranging from mild levels of anxiety up to school avoidance," Ms Read said.

But she said there was now a change in attitudes where students also felt more comfortable to come forward.

"I think a school is very much a microcosm of broader society and we know that there has been a rise in mental health issues across the country and internationally," Ms Read said.

Anxiety, depression on the rise but ADHD in decline

Senior psychologist Beth Matters sees the unique challenges for teens first-hand in her work at the public high school in Canberra's north.

She said cyber bullying and stress, particularly regarding exams, were a major concern for students.

And she said while anxiety and depression had increased in the past five years, there had been a decrease in some behavioural disturbances such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Ms Matters said mental health was "everyone's business" beyond the final classroom bell.

"It's about sending out the messaging that it's OK to be vulnerable within ourselves, and say 'actually I am not doing OK'," she said.

Community response needed

Ms Wholley said while her Catholic school was undertaking measures to help its own students, the ACT Government needed to commit to more than "band-aid solutions".

"At the moment I don't believe they know the solution," she said.

"[They] will give an extra $400 to an agency and that will put in an extra three counsellors. That is actually not going to be a solution for 25 per cent of the population."

She said the poor integration of services was adversely affecting students, and psychologists, counsellors, teachers, parents and researchers should all be working together to find the best strategies for individual kids.

"I think we need to realise that whilst mental health is the responsibility of the individual, they need support. And that support needs to come from a variety of sources," she said.

"My experience is that [schools and external services] work as silos and we don't talk to each other, so that is where I have been a bit frustrated in the ACT.

"We're there to give them the best education possible, but if they're not healthy and aren't happy, then they're not going to learn."

'We've created an environment that's unrealistic'

Ms Wholley said a combination of social media and not allowing children to fail and make mistakes was compounding the issue.

"Not only are they connected to each other, they're also finding out things that are happening in the world in a way we don't censor," she said.

"They see corruption, they see crimes, they see murders … and they're seeing it live.

"But we've also made sure our children are living in an environment where they're protected, and in that protection we've not allowed them to take risks or fail at something. We've created an environment that's unrealistic."

She said she worried if the country did not act immediately, nothing would improve for the future and there would be an increase in people on welfare or with much more serious mental health conditions.

"You are going to have 25 per cent of a workforce that will not be engaged in their education [and] will leave schooling with a minimal level of emotional health and wellbeing," she said.

"They will be unable to engage and be an active and contributing citizen to our economy … and that would be a tragedy.

"I actually see that as something that is foreseeable and if it is foreseeable then we must do something about it now."

'It's very concerning'

ACT Mental Health Minister Shane Rattenbury said it was "very concerning" children as young as 10 were experiencing anxiety and depression.

He conceded the system needed to evolve to meet the demands of younger students.

"It is very challenging to see younger and younger people expressing problems with their mental health," he said.

"We do have a range of youth mental health programs, but with the changing dynamics of people who are younger and younger expressing mental health concerns, we need to keep evolving our service provision to make sure we keep up."

Topics: mental-health, family-and-children, children, community-and-society, schools, health, education, child-health-and-behaviour, canberra-2600, act, australia

First posted
====================
Ready to fight back? Sign up for Take Action Now and get three actions in your inbox every week. You will receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support The Nation’s journalism. You can read our Privacy Policy here. Sign up for Take Action Now and get three actions in your inbox every week.

Thank you for signing up. For more from The Nation, check out our latest issue

Subscribe now for as little as $2 a month!

Support Progressive Journalism The Nation is reader supported: Chip in $10 or more to help us continue to write about the issues that matter. The Nation is reader supported: Chip in $10 or more to help us continue to write about the issues that matter.

Fight Back! Sign up for Take Action Now and we’ll send you three meaningful actions you can take each week. You will receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support The Nation’s journalism. You can read our Privacy Policy here. Sign up for Take Action Now and we’ll send you three meaningful actions you can take each week.

Thank you for signing up. For more from The Nation, check out our latest issue

Travel With The Nation Be the first to hear about Nation Travels destinations, and explore the world with kindred spirits. Be the first to hear about Nation Travels destinations, and explore the world with kindred spirits.

Sign up for our Wine Club today. Did you know you can support The Nation by drinking wine?

Emboldened by November’s election results, corporations and their right-wing allies have launched what they hope will be their final offensive against America’s unions. Their immediate target is government workers’ unions. While New Jersey’s Republican Governor Chris Christie has gained national fame by beating up on public school teachers, the threat to unionized workers is playing out in all fifty states, to the drumbeat in the media about states going broke because of government workers’ wages, pensions and benefits. By late January, with the swearing-in ceremonies complete in the twenty-one states where Republicans have a “trifecta,” controlling the governor’s office and both statehouses, hundreds of bills had been introduced seeking to hem in unions if not ban them altogether. On February 11, Wisconsin’s new Republican Governor Scott Walker made what amounts to a declaration of all-out war on public sector workers in his historically progressive state, moving to deprive them of the very right to bargain collectively on matters essential to their economic security. Ad Policy

Walker’s gambit has rightly elicited outrage, but considering the breadth of the attack unions are facing nationally, it is only the tip of the iceberg. Right-to-work legislation has been filed in twelve states; this is in addition to the twenty-two that already have such laws on the books. In technical terms, this legislation makes it illegal for employers to condition employment on union membership or the equivalent dues payments even when a majority of workers vote to form a union; practically speaking, it makes building and maintaining a strong union very difficult, which in turn makes it harder to organize new workplaces because there are few positive examples of unions to point to. In Virginia, the corporations and right-wing ideologues decided that the existing right-to-work law wasn’t sufficient, and introduced a measure to embed the right-to-work provisions in the state Constitution. Three more states—Montana, Ohio and Wisconsin—are expected to have bills introduced converting their legal status to right-to-work. Related Article Nation Conversations: Jane McAlevey on Why Unions Are Not the Problem The Nation

Alabama passed legislation in January that bans public employee unions from collecting dues unless the unions first prove that none of the money will be used for supporting election campaigns. In every subsequent year after the initial certification, the union must submit itemized reports accounting for how its money is being spent. This law, sold as “paycheck protection” by the right but known as “paycheck deception” among union activists, has been introduced in four other states this year, including Arizona, Kansas, Mississippi and Missouri. In California there has already been ballot initiative language submitted to do the same. Using a variety of legal tools, these measures prohibit the use of union dues for political activity. Union advocates are expecting twelve more states to file bills or initiatives banning the collection of union monies for politics.

Building and construction unions are facing their own daunting lineup of bills that would gut prevailing wage laws and what are known as Project Labor Agreements (PLAs). These measures facilitate collective bargaining and the division of labor for unionized construction jobs, particularly construction jobs with public financing. In twenty states there is legislation expected to ban PLAs. In Iowa the new governor, Terry Branstad, was so excited to take up the challenge, he undid PLAs with his first executive order. The new governor of Ohio, John Kasich, has pledged to eliminate prevailing wage laws. It’s hard to say whether Missouri or Maine will beat him to his goal, though: Missouri’s legislation to ban prevailing wages has been introduced, and the new governor of Maine appointed the head of the building and construction industry organization to the position of state legislative director, a sure sign that he’s serious about eliminating such laws. The AFL-CIO says it anticipates anti–prevailing wage laws in fifteen states.

It is government workers, however, who face attacks in every state. Teacher tenure is being targeted in five states: New Jersey, Nevada, Indiana, Idaho and Florida. Laws that would allow parents, by petition, to “trigger” an entire school district to move to charter schools or to voucher programs are expected in at least eleven states. States that are considering either weakening or removing entirely the ability of public sector workers to bargain collectively include not only Wisconsin but Ohio, South Dakota, Colorado, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire and Oklahoma. Measures to dismantle benefits for government workers are expected in some form in all fifty states. Newt Gingrich and Jeb Bush, meanwhile, are pushing to allow states to declare bankruptcy, which would enable them to break their agreements that cover the pensions of hundreds of thousands of retired government workers. On top of all this, President Obama has called for a freeze on federal workers’ pay.

At the same time, a push to privatize public assets and services is mounting, posing a dire threat to public workers. Groups like In the Public Interest (inthepublicinterest.org) are working to hold back the privatization tide, but the momentum is on the other side. Donald Cohen, the group’s chair, notes a recent shift in the nature of the opposition. “The entire world of public administration is being driven by a new cartel of consulting firms who offer their services to elected leaders—peddling themselves as efficiency experts,” he says, explaining that these firms are increasingly playing the role that used to be filled by right-wing think tanks. “They are accounting firms, law firms and more who promote privatization, and they make money for completing the deal. And yet it has very little to do with efficiency and probably nothing to do with actually improving public services.”

It isn’t as if these types of attacks on unions are new; what’s different is their scale, intensity and real possibility of success. After outspending unions in November’s election by an estimated 4-to-1 margin, corporations and their allies are exploiting the fiscal crises across the nation to drive a stake into the heart of what is left of organized labor—public workers’ unions. According to the just-released Bureau of Labor Statistics annual report for 2010, the overall union membership rate in America continued its slide, dropping from 12.3 percent to 11.9 percent. But perhaps most striking is the way unionization is skewed when comparing private sector workers, who are just 6.9 percent unionized, and public sector workers, 36.2 percent of whom belong to unions. The public sector, in other words, is labor’s last stronghold.

Grover Norquist laid out a sort of blueprint for the current right-wing assault in the February 2001 American Spectator. Identifying labor unions as the first of “five pillars” of Democratic strength, he calculated that they “raise $8 billion a year from 16 million union members paying an average of $500 dues,” and outlined a game plan for destroying union power, key to the right’s larger mission of abolishing all regulations that impede its agenda, from environmental laws to occupational safety to affirmative action.

But, of course, the right’s campaign against labor has been decades in the making. In 1975 the overall unionization rate in the private sector was 25 percent. Thanks to the class war that has been waged since then—involving trade liberalization, radical reorganization of global finance rules, unionbusting, deindustrialization, rejiggered accounting rules and more—Norquist’s goal is now within reach for the right. According to union expert and author Bill Fletcher Jr., “There has been a three-decade campaign by the neoliberal Democrats and the right wing to destroy the base of the strength of the American middle class, which can be boiled down to unions and government regulation of corporate excess. As a result, unionization rates and corresponding pay and benefits now appear higher in the government sector, and the same forces are now attacking government workers’ unions.”

The irony, according to Janice Fine, professor at the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations, is that in the 1960s it was the private sector workers who earned more than their government counterparts. “Back then, the private sector unions helped the government workers get organized as part of a program to raise the standards for all workers,” she notes. Now, as Ed Ott, former director of the New York City Central Labor Council, puts it, “After thirty years of wage suppression in the private sector, big business wants to compare wages and benefits between the private sector and the government sector.” Republican presidential hopeful Tim Pawlenty did just that in a recent Wall Street Journal op-ed. “Unionized public employees are making more money, receiving more generous benefits, and enjoying greater job security than the working families forced to pay for it with ever-higher taxes, deficits and debt,” he wrote. These claims are distorted [see Robert Pollin and Jeffrey Thompson, “The Betrayal of Public Workers”], but to the extent that public workers do enjoy hard-won union benefits, they have a target painted on their back.

The stakes for both political parties in this struggle are high, because where the campaign to gut public sector unions succeeds, Republicans will be poised for almost certain electoral gains. In general, across the nation, the lower the rate of unionization, the redder the state. And in the bluest states, the public sector dominates the union scene: in New York, for example, the most unionized state, the rate among government workers is 70.5 percent, next to 13.7 percent in the private sector. In California the unionization rate among government workers is 56.6 percent, compared with 9.3 percent among the private sector workforce.

There is a strong correlation, moreover, between red states, right-to-work laws, an overall worse quality of life for the average worker or poor person, and a more hostile climate for progressives, from environmentalists to civil rights activists. The average worker in a right-to-work state earns $5,333 less than his or her counterpart in a pro-worker state. Twenty-one percent more people lack health insurance. Late last year, immigration advocates anticipated Arizona-like measures in twenty-two states, eleven of which are controlled by Republicans. Of those, seven are right-to-work states. Not surprisingly, three that are not—Ohio, Pennsylvania and Indiana—are where the attack on government workers’ unions is the strongest.

Given the strategic importance of this fight, you would expect the progressive community to be rallying to mount a loud and vigorous counterattack. But the response has been anemic at best. Unions and progressives need to reset and develop a strategy quickly if they are to defend the ground they still hold, let alone recapture what has been lost. For almost forty years, the right has been systematically tearing apart the achievements of unions and social justice movements. The first challenge is to own up to the ways progressives and unions have failed to counter this onslaught.

Take the teachers unions. In the late 1960s they fought against community control of the New York City schools, sparking tension with the black community that lingers even now. As Fletcher argues, this rift is reflective of some of the deeper issues facing unions. “The AFT, at least until fairly recently, in confronting the attacks on public education, tended toward a very defensive posture. Rarely did they contextualize their fight as part of the larger fight to defend the public sector,” he explains. “Their fight almost had the appearance of being a fight to defend a particular craft under assault rather than to defend a key component of civilization.” As a result, Fletcher points out, neither the American Federation of Teachers nor the National Education Association has been able to assemble significant coalitions for education reform, and even in many progressive circles are seen—unfairly—as a hindrance to education rather than as a key champion.

Likewise, 1199/SEIU alienated progressives with its selfish dealmaking under former New York Governor George Pataki, a Republican. For example, when Blue Cross Blue Shield privatized, the healthcare workers union brazenly claimed the one-time windfall of money to pay for wage increases, in exchange for endorsing the man who was stepping on every other member of the traditional Democratic coalition.

The lukewarm support for unions generally and for government workers unions in particular in the progressive world is partly a legacy of such missteps by unions themselves. But in addition, there’s a more fundamental source of tension that is often ignored: most people who constitute the opinion-making class among liberals and progressives are upper middle class and mostly white. The progressives in academia and journalism, and the staff of most nonprofits from all movements, think tanks and foundations, are from a class that has little to no contact with unions. Even when there is an intellectual understanding of labor’s role in US history, there is often a lack of sympathy about the need for unions today. This is particularly true among liberal and progressive foundations, where support for unions is often a hot-button issue with boards of directors and top executives. Because these foundations represent the employer class for the social change movement, this has impeded the development of more effective strategies to counter the right-wing agenda.

Even among unions the fissures run deep. In New York, for example, where newly elected Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo has made slashing the state budget his single-minded mission, organized labor has not put up a united front against the cutbacks. The construction unions were especially eager to sell out the government workers unions for their own benefit. Ott explains how this works: “With the crashing economy, unemployment in the building trades in NYC is now somewhere in the 35 percent range, and some political entity comes along and says to the trades, ‘Hey, we will produce some jobs for your members on the capital side if you support us politically in this revenue fight.’”

This logic is not unusual for construction unions, which operate largely as craft unions—representing workers with a specific craft or skill, who have the ability to negotiate for themselves by withholding that skill. The construction unions have a long history of being an elitist labor force that has been used by politicians to split the union movement.

Rutgers’s Janice Fine says that overcoming divisions will take real work among unions. “When unionization rates and corresponding pay and benefits are so asymmetrical between the public and private sectors, unions have to take very deliberate steps to preserve solidarity,” she says, citing historical examples of public unions providing support to private sector unions by boycotting products, stores and companies, and supporting union products, banks and hotels. “This tradition is gone, and union members need to go back to consuming in a way that supports the unionized class. And private sector unions need to resist the short-term gain of undercutting public sector unions’ wages, benefits and pensions as it will only reinforce a race to the bottom that has no place for unions of any kind.”

The entire house of labor and all progressives must understand that we have not had a moment as threatening as this in our lifetime. The right is making the connections—attacking public employee unions and public services at the same time in order to wage complete war on the poor, people of color, and the working and middle classes of this country. Sadly, the left has not made the connections. To the extent that public sector unions, private sector unions and those fighting budget cuts allow themselves to be divided, they are playing into the right’s hands.

Assuming unions and progressives can focus on the enormity of the challenge before us, let’s review some of the tools and knowledge in our arsenal to defeat the antigovernment and antiunion offensive.

In Nevada, where I led a union that had been heavily dominated by public sector workers, we successfully beat back a divide-and-conquer unionbusting campaign waged by right-wing forces who had teamed up with the Democrats who led county government. In 2003 a Democratic county executive named Thom Reilly aligned with the Chamber of Commerce and the Nevada Taxpayers Union to produce a report that sounded the same themes as the current national campaign against government workers. In a media blitz, Reilly blasted public workers for earning more than their private sector counterparts. With a Democrat as the messenger, liberals were confused, including many union members.

In response, we set out first with a massive campaign to educate the rank and file about the coming attack. In the first year, we organized meetings with more than 2,000 government workers by designing an educational module distributed to almost every unionized facility at break times and shift changes. At every union meeting for two years, attention was directed to the economy; the class war against all workers; how the right had come first for private sector unions and now were coming for public sector unions; and the need to “draw a line in the desert” to raise expectations, so that workers could unite to reclaim what they deserved.

We talked openly and often about how, if the county executive wanted to point out the disparity in the pay of unionized government workers versus that of workers in the nonunionized private sector, he was right. But rather than accepting that government workers—including many people of color and women—who still had a decent job with the ability to retire should surrender what they had to the lowest common denominator, we challenged them to get behind two big initiatives. The first was to organize the private sector workers as fast as possible so that we could bring them up to the same standard. The second was to change the image of the government workers by making the quality of the government services reflect the highest standards possible. We wanted “government workers” to have a sort of Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval in the public’s mind.

We kept at these efforts over the next several years, and by the time the government workers arrived at their next round of collective bargaining, the county executive’s message—that county workers were overpaid compared with their private sector counterparts—had lost its force. For one thing, we had raised private sector standards through organizing and negotiating strong contracts. In fact, in a two-year period, the private sector hospital workers went from wages and benefits far below those at the big public hospital to wages higher than and benefits catching up to those of government workers. And through it all, we elevated an internal education campaign and external message framed around the American Dream—who had stolen it and how the way to bring it back was by organizing, bargaining and setting higher standards for all workers. It was crucial that despite lots of strains, union solidarity held together to beat back one ballot initiative after another that sought to all but eliminate the already small tax base in Nevada.

We also took on the libertarian contempt for government that was so popular in Nevada—which was prominently displayed in hateful editorial cartoons like those that are now common in states like New Jersey, depicting government workers as fat, lazy, overpaid bureaucrats. We did this in part by engaging the members in a newly designed training program for union stewards aimed at reshaping the grievance process for a union whose workers perform services for the community rather than assembly line work on a machine. But it was only after thousands of conversations that we were able to help workers—even government workers—overcome their suspicions of government.

We know that Americans are predisposed to be more suspicious of government than they are of unions. Union organizer Fernando Gapasin, co-author of Solidarity Divided, says, “Karl Rove did an analysis of the core values of Americans, and he took that individualism is one core idea. For a lot of people this translates to the corporations as the highest form of someone’s individual aspirations. For a lot of people individual responsibility and individual achievement gets confusing, and it leads to workers telling me that if they were laid off, they would refuse to collect unemployment, because if they or their families can’t take care of themselves, there’s something wrong with them.” The Norquist forces are, in effect, running a message that aligns neatly with the dominant cultural narrative in America. Unions and progressives have a message and solutions that are seemingly running against this narrative. This is precisely why organizers and organizing are required, not simply mobilizing and messaging.

Liberals and progressives don’t understand why, in poll after poll, Americans support Social Security, Medicare and money for their local parks and other services but oppose “big government.” If we want to close the gap in the often bimodal results of polling, we don’t need more polling: we need well-trained and highly skilled organizers who can help facilitate conversations among next-door neighbors and co-workers. We have good “framers.” We have smart policy wonks with big degrees who can write good policy. We have lawyers to defend the policy. And we have no one in any serious way out talking with Americans about this crisis. It’s organizers who help people in large numbers to come to the self-realization that things aren’t working and that it isn’t their fault. Good organizing is really the only way that workers, the unemployed and the poor can overcome the impulse to blame themselves for the crisis they face. Yet liberal foundations often balk at funding such efforts, believing that it won’t add up to policy change and channeling money instead to policy, legal and “communications” work.

Unions and progressives need to return to engaging large numbers of people in one-on-one conversations. Unions should kick-start the campaign by sponsoring and unleashing the biggest Union Summer program of all time and pay student interns, and unemployed rank-and-file workers, to work with union groups and nonunion allies in a mass education campaign that seeks to change the narrative from “We all go down together” to “It’s time to return to the American Dream we all deserve.” Unions must stop pretending to be engaging the base by setting up call centers or buying cellphones for their members. Foundations must stop pretending that unions don’t matter, and that messaging strategies can overcome America’s cultural norms of extreme individualism. Real conversations, where people have a chance to understand the war that is being waged against them and the power they must build, are the only thing that will save us.
====================
Talib Kweli performs at North Coast Festival at Union Park in Chicago, Ill. on Aug. 30, 2014.

Billboard is exclusively announcing the lineup for the sixth annual North Coast Music Festival in Chicago, unveiling the diverse set of artists playing the three-day event from Sep. 4-6.

Announced headliners include The Chemical Brothers, who closed out the festival's inaugural edition in 2010, and D'Angelo and the Vanguard. The festival will also announce a surprise rock headliner on May 12.

Spring Awakening Festival Announces 2015 Lineup: Zedd, Hardwell, Tiësto & More (Exclusive)

The varied lineup features hip-hop artists like Atmosphere, The Roots and Wale alongside such dance acts as Knife Party, Porter Robinson and Steve Aoki. Rock and jam bands are also well represented with the likes of Chromeo, The Disco Biscuits and Shpongle in attendance.

The festival's popular Silent Disco and "Living Gallery," presented by Elder Tree graffiti area, will return this year. A number of affiliated after parties will also be announced, to which ticket holders will have the opportunity to purchase advance tickets before the general public.

North Coast Music Festival will take place at Union Park in Chicago. Tickets are on sale now at northcoastfestival.com.

This media is not available on this platform.
====================
The economy is recovering. House prices rise steeply to recover the value lost during the crash but many remain cautious about entering the housing market - not wanting to sell until prices reach the old peak.

The economy is recovering. House prices rise steeply to recover the value lost during the crash but many remain cautious about entering the housing market - not wanting to sell until prices reach the old peak.

The Lost Recovery: Just this once, let us resist the Siren's call to build houses in a rush - we have options

Demand for housing returns, but supply is slow to restart, it takes a long time to get permissions and build new houses.

Meanwhile, the combination of few sellers and few new houses creates a shortage of accommodation. Rents rise as those who have money can not find houses to buy. Poor people, students and transient workers compete fiercely for fewer and fewer rental properties.

The building industry pressurises governments to incentivise new house-building with lax lending rules, tax exemptions, grants and lower interest rates. Extra cash increases the hope value of building land. Social charities pressurise Governments to control rents - landlords leave the market, supply further contracts.

Pundits besiege governments, egging them onwards with alarm, based on snap-shots of data.

Everyone is suddenly an expert in housing. Everyone knows the solution - the site, the pre-fab, the tax break, the planning loophole. Every scheme probably has some merit, for addressing some part of the problem.

Everyone ignores the dull reality that the provision of housing must be slow to be safe, to be wise, to be affordable, to be fit. Hurried houses make very poor homes.

This plodding advice is never heeded. Short-sighted, politically expedient measures are eventually adopted. The seeds of the next house bubble are sown. It is happening now in Ireland. It is happening in the UK. 'Housing Crisis!' is a headline in Spanish, German and Scandinavian cities. Renewed demand is unmatched by sufficient or suitable supply.

This always happens at the end of a deep recession.

The building industry tempts the government with the promise of creating jobs. Revenue is tempted by the taxes from property sales. These are short-sighted, once-off and illusory benefits.

The reality is that when housing is abundant and affordable it creates and sustains jobs in an internationally competitive economy. The ' Housing Industry' does not create jobs - it eventually kills jobs in the real economy, the lasting economy. A new house only benefits the economy once. A job sustained by affordable housing delivers over and over again.

It doesn't always have to be this way.

The transitional period as housing supply catches up with the re-emergence of demand can be managed in other ways. Long-term supply solutions - new homes - are the responsibility of the Department of Environment.

But until these are ready - which will take 24 to 36 months - we need short-term solutions that are not short-sighted.

First let's do some simple maths to find out the size of our short-term problem. In July, the Housing Agency advised the Government that Ireland will need 21,000 new homes each year for the next four years.

The Agency also advised that there is a persistent mismatch between the supply and demand for housing, particularly in Dublin and surrounding counties, as well as major cities such as Cork, Galway and Limerick.

More maths. Dublin has around 500,000 houses - it is estimated that around 8pc are vacant. A normal city always has around 4pc vacancy - for a variety of reasons. Every 1pc less vacancy produces 5,000 houses. If we could prod, persuade, tempt and bribe people to reduce our vacancy by 4pc, we would have enough supply for a whole year - at no cost - and it would be available immediately.

Even more maths. Property is mostly owned by older folks. If we assume that 20pc of the population are over 55, then every 1pc of the over-55s who can be encouraged, rewarded or otherwise tempted to down-size will yield another 2,000 homes.

These are just back-of-the envelope calculations - using very bad maths - to illustrate how tiny changes in behaviour could immediately free up huge quantities of houses, at very little cost.

The short-term answer may lie in the Department of Finance - who are good at maths - because the shortage of supply during the transition phase could be managed by this kind of evidence-based legislation and associated fiscal measures.

Just for once, let us resist the Siren's call. Just for once let us stimulate the availability of our existing housing stock.

Just for once, let us not build. Let us instead:

• Incentivise owers to sell - or rent. Let us provide advice, and support those who move to down-size to warmer, safer and more convenient homes.

• Reward those who convert, modernise or share existing accommodation. Let us measure, challenge and reward Housing Authorities who can rapidly return existing social housing for use.

• Offer once-off Capital Gains Tax reductions to incentivise reluctant sellers. There is a chronic shortage of homes for sale.

• Offer annually increasing tax credits for landlords who retain tenants with only cost-of living rent increases.

• Offer tax and vat relief for all landlords - so that we treat them as professionally-run businesses.

• Use financial regulation to require pension funds to invest in Irish social housing - as is done in Switzerland.

• Offer Capital Gains Tax Reliefs for lands developed exclusively for long-term rental.

• Legislate to facilitate tax efficiency in temporal ownership.

• Adjust the rules of the Fair Deal Programme to incentivise and reward the rental of unused premises and introduce cost penalties.

• Incentivise new collective property letting businesses - to increase the professionalising of the rental sector. These are just 10 examples of the type of fiscal and regulatory measures that can be quickly introduced by a Finance Act. Each has the potential to incrementally contribute to the supply that we need until building resumes.

There are, literally, tens of thousands of houses out there - they already exist. Let us unlock these while we wait to build the new homes that we need. Let us build the new homes that we need slowly, carefully, in the right place for the right price. And meanwhile, let us be wise and not build. Let us use what we already have.

Meanwhile, Britain's housing crisis is said to be so bad it is now threatening the national economy. Concern is rising that sky-high accommodation costs are making businesses think twice about locating to London and the South East.So the Chancellor George Osborne last week unveiled a series of housing and planning measures.

They were contained within a wide-ranging report that addressed the age-old curse afflicting the UK economy: low wages and low productivity. Key measures in the 'Fixing the Foundations' report included a radical attempt to liberalise and speed up the planning system to smooth the delivery of 200,000 new Starter Homes at a 20pc discount to the market price.

Conor Skehan is Chairperson of the Housing Agency

Sunday Independent
====================
news With Growing Fears in Toronto’s Gay Community, Police Ramp Up Investigation into the Missing Men

At a recent town hall, a concerned crowd told that there's no new information into the search for the vanishing men from the Village.

It was standing-room-only at an August 1 town hall meeting discussing the inexplicable disappearances of five men who frequented gay bars in the Church and Wellesley Village and online cruising sites.

Friends, family, and community members filled the ballroom at the 519 Community Centre to vent their grief and express their fears about the disappearances that have rocked the community over the past five weeks.

The two most recent cases are Andrew Kinsman, 49, who went missing at the end of June, and 43-year-old Selim Esen, who disappeared in April.

The other three cases being investigated date back to 2010 and 2012, involving three men of colour. These three men are Abdulbasir “Basir” Faizi, 44, and Majeed Kayhan, both from Afghanistan, and Skandaraj “Skanda” Navaratnam, a 40-year-old Sri Lankan refugee.

Last week, Toronto Police announced the creation of a new task force dedicated to investigating the disappearances full-time, and trying to determine if there are any links between the cases.

At the town hall, police thanked the local community for their cooperation and “the abundance of information that has come in,” as they said repeatedly. Members of the task force told the community that there are no updates to be released publicly yet.

“Sadly, I don’t have new information for you,” said police inspector Peter Code, adding that even if they did, “we couldn’t share it publicly as we cannot speak about evidence. We know how frustrating this is for everyone.”

And, he said, despite a growing fear in the community that someone could be targeting gay men, there is yet “no evidence of criminality.” Code ended by saying that the disappearance cases are “like a puzzle in which we don’t know what pieces are missing.”

Superintendent Tony Riviere said there are seven full-time officers on the new investigative task force. “Nothing is off the table,” he says. “Assume whatever you know we don’t know.”

Greg Downer, a close friend of Andrew Kinsman, who founded the group, Toronto’s Missing Rainbow Community Members, and organized the town hall, said the group is developing strategies to stay safe, both while out cruising in bars or chatting online.

The resource Look Out For Each Other was handed out at the town hall. It suggests keeping a paper trail prior to meeting any online hook-up. That could be initiating an email or text exchange with the online stranger before arranging a meeting.

Trans people, Two-Spirit community members, and queer refugees—populations within the LGBTQ community that disproportionately go missing and experience violence—were also invited to speak at the town hall. All spoke eloquently about what it’s like to constantly be vulnerable to violence and subject to random attacks.

“Ali,“ an audience member and Iranian refugee to Canada, told the hushed crowd about the time, a few years ago, he had been drugged and attacked by a man he had met on Scruff, and how he still has to take anxiety medicines to ease his pain and his intense feelings of vulnerability. Ali said he went to the police, but was told they didn’t have enough information to lay charges.

Trans activist and artist Nicki Ward said many Trans people remain fearful of the police, so many disappearances go unreported.

Downer says a priority for the group is making online dating apps safer for LGBTQ people to use. He is already taking steps to reach out and work with to gay cruising and hookup apps, such as Grindr, Tinder, or Scruff, to see if they would consider including an option that allows people to consent to having their information released should they ever go missing.

“When you look at the faces of the five men, they certainly have a very similar appearance in terms of what we would call in the community ‘a type,’” Downer said, meaning, they all appear to be middle aged, bearded gay men who are active online and in local gay bars in the Village.

James Dubro is a long-time Toronto crime journalist. He is the author of five nonfiction crime books and has covered major police and LGBT-connected crime stories for Xtra, Canada’s Gay and Lesbian News. He is a past president of the Crime Writers of Canada and has produced and written a number of crime documentaries for television.
====================
Due to the lack of UVM tutorials for complete beginners, I decided to create a guide that will assist a novice in building a verification environment using this methodology. I will not focus on verification techniques nor in the best practices in verifying a digital design, this guide was thought in helping you to understand the UVM API and in helping you to successfully compile a complete environment.

The simulator used is Synopsys VCS but the testbench should compile in any HDL simulator that supports SystemVerilog.

The code for the environment can be download in this GitHub repository: https://github.com/pedro-araujo/uvm-testbench-tutorial-simple-adder

Introduction

As digital systems grow in complexity, verification methodologies get progressively more essential. While in the early beginnings, digital designs were verified by looking at waveforms and performing manual checks, the complexity we have today don’t allow for that kind of verification anymore and, as a result, designers have been trying to find the best way to automate this process.

The SystemVerilog language came to aid many verification engineers. The language featured some mechanisms, like classes, covergroups and constraints, that eased some aspects of verifying a digital design and then, verification methodologies started to appear.

UVM is one of the methodologies that were created from the need to automate verification. The Universal Verification Methodology is a collection of API and proven verification guidelines written for SystemVerilog that help an engineer to create an efficient verification environment. It’s an open-source standard maintained by Accellera and can be freely acquired in their website.

By mandating a universal convention in verification techniques, engineers started to develop generic verification components that were portable from one project to another, this promoted the cooperation and the sharing of techniques among the user base. It also encouraged the development of verification components generic enough to be easily extended and improved without modifying the original code.

All these aspects contributed for a reduced effort in developing new verification environments, as designers can just reuse testbenches from previous projects and easily modify the components to their needs.

These series of webpages will provide a training guide for verifying a basic adder block using UVM. The guide will assume that you have some basic knowledge of SystemVerilog and will require accompaniment of the following resources:

Book “SystemVerilog for Verification: A Guide to Learning the TestBench Language Features“, by Chris Spear

Book “Comprehensive Functional Verification: The Complete Industry Cycle“, by John Goss

This guide will be divided in 3 different parts:

The first part, starting on chapter 1, will explain the operation of the device under test (DUT): the inputs, the outputs and the communication bus

The second part, starting on chapter 2, will give a brief overview of a generic verification environment and the approach into verifying the DUT
====================
Soon after Julius Caesar’s assassination in 44BC, a comet was seen streaking across the Italian skies for seven successive days. The soothsayers and astronomers soon agreed that the portent represented Caesar’s soul ascending to the heavens, “there to be received among the spirits of the immortal gods”.

Today, thankfully, we may no longer deify our politicians, but Mary Beard represents the nearest thing in contemporary academe: a semi-deified don and an object of worship, both by the Senate House and by the people. Her new work, SPQR, is probably her most ambitious yet, a magisterial history of Rome which attempts to understand “how a tiny and very unremarkable little village in central Italy became so dominant a power over so much territory in three continents”.

Professor Beard tops and tails her account of the rise of the Roman empire by laying out why she believes its study – to which, she says, she has “given a good deal of the past fifty years of my life” – is still not only relevant, but very important, so giving her own answer to the celebrated Monty Python conundrum: “What did the Romans ever do for us?” Rome, she explains, “still helps define the way we understand our world and think about ourselves”:

After 2,000 years it continues to underpin Western culture and politics, what we write and how we see the world, and our place in it. . . . The layout of the Roman imperial territory underlies the political geography of modern Europe and beyond. The main reason that London is the capital of the United Kingdom is that the Romans made it the capital of their province Britannia . . . Rome has bequeathed to us ideas of liberty and citizenship as much as of imperial exploitation, combined with a vocabulary of modern politics, from “senators” to “dictators”.

She concludes: “Many of our most fundamental assumptions about power, citizenship, responsibility, political violence, empire, luxury and beauty have been formed, and tested, in dialogue with the Romans and their writing.”

The publication of SPQR coincides with another excellent book covering much the same territory, Dynasty: the Rise and Fall of the House of Caesar by Tom Holland, the other contender for the laurel wreath of being Britain’s most widely read and industrious classicist. The two books differ slightly in their aims: Holland focuses on the century-long rise and fall of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, while Beard takes a longer view, from Romulus and Remus right up to the early 3rd century AD. The near-simultaneous release of these books, written in intriguingly different styles, can only sharpen an unspoken rivalry for dominance over the classical world, the modern literary equivalent of the showdown between austere Augustus – who nonetheless had a genius for good publicity and keeping himself in the public eye – and the more flamboyant Mark Antony. In this Actium, however, there are two winners.

Mary Beard is the more academic and measured of the two. Analytical and judicious, she is constantly weighing the archaeological evidence against that of written texts, and she watches the frontiers of the Roman empire with the assurance and authority of a senior umpire calling a wicket. Holland is concerned more with building an engrossing narrative, and in diving deep into the human and biographical forces driving Roman history. He is a witty and skilful storyteller, capable of penning penetrating psychological portraits of the monsters who form his subject: he notes with relish that Caligula is “one of the few people from ancient history to be as familiar to pornographers as to classicists”. He recounts with pleasure his racy tales of psychopathic cruelty, incest, paedophilia, matricide, fratricide, assassination and depravity.

Holland is quite correct that the history of the Julio-Claudian dynasty (that is, the first five Roman emperors – Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero) seems to have “sprung from some fantasy novel or TV box-set”:

Tiberius, grim, paranoid, and with a taste for having his testicles licked by young boys in swimming pools; Caligula, lamenting that the Roman people did not have a single neck, so that he might cut it through . . . Nero, kicking his pregnant wife to death, marrying a eunuch, and raising a pleasure palace over the fire-gutted centre of Rome. For those who like their tales of dynastic back-stabbing spiced up with poison and exotic extremes of perversion, the story might well seem to have everything.

Indeed – though for those who prefer their Rome without testicle-licking, Professor Beard may be the safer choice.

Both books open by considering the Romans’ strikingly unflattering myth of origin. The tale of Romulus and Remus is an odd one with which to celebrate the founding of a great city, involving as it does a rape, an unwanted pregnancy, a bungled attempt at infanticide and a successful fratricide. But as Holland comments, non-Romans “found it all too plausible. That Romulus had been fathered by Mars, the god of war, and suckled by a she-wolf appeared – to those brought into bruising contact with his descendants – to explain much about the Roman character.” As the Byzantine emperor Justin observed of his Roman neighbours, “It is only to be expected that they should all of them have the hearts of wolves. They are inveterately thirsty for blood, and insatiable in their greed. Their lusting after power and riches has no limits!”

Both authors then consider the early kings whose tyrannical excesses led the Romans for hundreds of years to refuse to allow supreme power to remain with any single ruler, and caused them instead to embrace a republican form of government in which supreme power long rested with Senatus PopulusQue Romanus – “the Senate and People of Rome” – the SPQR of Beard’s title.

It is only with the pivotal moment of the rise of Augustus, however, that the mists of mythology clear and both books fully come alive. It is a story so familiar from drama and fiction, from Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar and Antony and Cleopatra through I, Claudius and Caligula to HBO’s Rome – indeed, even the Asterix comics – that it comes as something of a surprise to see how closely the lineaments of the tales we have followed since childhood resemble the hard reality of recorded history.

For Holland, Augustus is the small-town gangster who rises from a relatively obscure background to become Julius Caesar’s adopted son. He portrays a chillingly ruthless figure whose rise to become the first emperor of Rome involved using the murder of Caesar as his springboard into power-gathering a party around him and carefully orchestrating a series of assassinations by his illegal private army of thugs and hitmen, “a harvest of aristocratic heads” that culminated in the bloodiest civil war of antiquity. This reached its murderous climax on the fields of Philippi, where in 42BC he finally defeated Caesar’s enemies, the champions of the Republic, in a battle in which it has been estimated “that a quarter of all [Roman] citizens of military age fought on one side or the other”. Having come to power with the assistance of his partners in the Triumvirate, Marc Antony and Lepidus, he then turned on them and seized absolute power following his victory in the Battle of Actium and the suicides of Antony and Cleopatra.

Beard is more admiring of this mesmerising man who dominated the Mediterranean world for nearly half a century, and admits to remaining baffled by such a complex and contradictory figure. She quotes his 4th-century successor Julian the Apostate, who likened him to “a chameleon . . . a tricky old reptile continually changing colour . . . one minute gloomy and sombre, the next parading all the charms of the goddess of love . . . enigmatic, slippery and evasive”.

The tall and godlike figure we see in his still instantly recognisable, mass-produced statues, industriously distributed around the empire, seems to have borne only a passing resemblance to the real man, who, according to his contemporaries, was a frail hypochondriac who wore platform shoes to mask his shortness, and had unkempt hair, bad teeth, “poor spelling . . . terror of thunderstorms and [a] habit of wearing four tunics and a vest under his toga in the winter”. Among his final words to the friends who assembled at his bedside as he was dying was “a characteristically shifty” quotation from a Greek comedy: “If I have played my part well, then give me applause.”

“What kind of act had he been playing all those years?” Beard asks. “Where was the real Augustus? How Augustus managed to recast so much of the political landscape of Rome, how he managed to get his own way for more than forty years, and with what support, is still puzzling.”

Augustus, widely seen as Rome’s greatest emperor, highlights the problem we have with almost all these towering monsters: do we regard them as “great”, for the way they bestrode the world, bringing with the Pax Romana prosperity and civilisation to the entire Mediterranean region? Or do we see them as primal models of the corruption and depravity that autocracy and tyranny necessarily bring in their wake, as well as being templates for the violence and exploitation of later centuries of European imperialism? The Romans clearly believed in their own mission civilisatrice: as Pliny put it, it was Rome’s destiny “to unite previously distinct powers, to soften patterns of behaviour, to provide a common language to the numerous peoples hitherto divided by their savage tongues, to civilise mankind – in short, to unite the peoples of the world, and to serve them as their fatherland”. Yet the brutality of Roman colonialism was often extraordinary, and the casualties enormous even by modern standards. Julius Caesar’s campaigns in Gaul, for instance, have often been compared to a genocide. “A million people, so it was said, perished over their course,” Holland writes. “A million more were enslaved.”

In both books, the reader is repeatedly struck by the ease with which the very human figures of the Julio-Claudians move from being totally familiar, and motivated by thoroughly modern aspirations and desires, to moments when they suddenly become utterly alien. Beard is especially good on this. From one point of view, she writes, “. . . everything seems reassuringly familiar: there are conversations going on that we almost join, about the nature of freedom or problems of sex; there are buildings and monuments we recognise and family life lived out in ways we understand, with all their troublesome adolescents; and there are jokes that we ‘get’.” One of the great concerns of imperial Rome was immigration and the displacement by war of vast numbers of foreign refugees into its urban centres: these are issues which are still current in politics today. But, viewed through another peephole, the Roman world sometimes appears terrifyingly vicious and alien, as Beard explains:

That means not just the slavery, the filth (there was hardly any such thing as refuse collection in ancient Rome), the human slaughter in the arena and the death from illnesses whose cure we now take for granted; but also the newborn babies thrown away on rubbish heaps, the child brides and the flamboyant eunuch priests.

Holland usually stresses the parallels with the modern world in the orchestrated theatricality of the emperors’ public performances, as well as the degree of international celebrity enjoyed by the Roman royal family. “No household in history,” he writes, “had ever before been so squarely in the public eye as that of Augustus.”

The fashions and hairstyles of its most prominent members, reproduced in exquisite detail by sculptors across the Empire, set trends from Syria to Spain. Their achievements were celebrated in spectacular showy monuments, their scandals repeated with relish from seaport to seaport. Propaganda and gossip, each feeding off the other, gave to the dynasty of Augustus a celebrity that ranked, for the first time, as continent-spanning.

Even their sexual lives can appear proto-modern. Augustus’s daughter Julia is a strikingly familiar figure: after her father divorced her mother, Scribonia, she grew alienated from both her father and her stepmother, Livia, and, like some unhappy child of Hollywood, or renegade royalty, took refuge in frenzied adultery. Yet as the depravity of the Julio-Claudians grows ever more bizarre, we again find ourselves in an alien world: the elderly retired Tiberius turns the entire island of Capri into the Roman equivalent of the Playboy Mansion, where youths from leading families are made to enact scenes from the lives of the gods, “obliged to pose as prostitutes, to hawk for business like the lowest class of sex worker, to perform sometimes three or four at a time”. Nero simulates “criminals being torn to pieces” by binding the objects of his lust to stakes, then releasing himself from a cage, “dressed in the skins of a wild animal”, and performing acts of oral sex on his victims.

If Beard is the considered Augustus of classical studies in this country and Holland the Mark Antony, with one eye firmly on the imperial bedroom, the third member of this literary triumvirate must be Peter Frankopan, whose epic study of East-West cross-fertilisation, The Silk Roads, was published in August. Frankopan, however, is no weak Lepidus: his is a book of dazzling range and ambition which, in its chapters on the Roman empire, illuminates a side of Romanitas that does not emerge in Beard’s and Holland’s more Eurocentric work: the degree to which the Roman empire was funded, softened and to some extent civilised by its eastern and Asiatic provinces. It was here, Frankopan writes, quoting the poet-historian Sallust, that “Roman soldiers came of age . . . learned how to make love, to be drunk, to enjoy statues, pictures and art”. It was, after all, Egyptian grain that fed the empire, Levantine taxes that paid for its monuments, and eastern silks that revealingly wrapped its society woman. And it was, finally, an eastern religion, Christianity, that replaced its ancient gods.

It is also Frankopan who gives us a fabulously apocalyptic vision – absent from these books by Beard and Holland – of the fall of Rome to Alaric’s Visigoths in 410AD, and an even more terrifying visitation from the “seedbed of evil”, the Huns. The picture he paints is a sort of classical version of Mad Max: Fury Road. The Huns, he shows, were creatures from a nightmare: dressed in robes made of field mice skins stitched together, they ate raw meat, “partially warmed by being placed between their thighs”. But it was not just that they were “exceedingly savage”; they looked terrifying, too. The Huns performed cranial deformation on their young, “flatten[ing] the frontal and occipal bones by applying pressure [so that] the head grew in a pointed manner”, as well as “scarring the cheeks of infant boys when they were born . . . They spent so long on horseback that their bodies were grotesquely deformed; and they looked like animals standing on their hind legs.”

These were the men who brought down Rome and ended the glory of the Caesars. At long last, the Romans had met their match – a people even more ruthless, brutal and lupine than themselves.

SPQR: a History of Ancient Rome by Mary Beard is published by Profile Books (£25, 606pp)

Dynasty: the Rise and Fall of the House of Caeser by Tom Holland is published by Little, Brown (£25, 483pp)
====================
Packers Blog The Journal Sentinel's team of Packers beat writers provide the latest news, notes and analysis SHARE

By of the

Green Bay - Packers coach Mike McCarthy came out saying he had bad news and he wasn't kidding.

Safety Nick Collins is out for the season with a neck injury.

Collins, who returned to Green Bay at 1 p.m., was evaluated last night in a Charlotte hospital and it was determined he should not play the rest of the season. A course of treatment, including whether to have surgery, is still being evaluated.

"Nick was in the team meeting," McCarthy said, when he informed the team about Collins' status.

UPDATE: Collins' agent, Alan Herman, said that he has talked to Collins twice and that a diagnosis is not complete. He said he did not know exactly what the injury is, but he said it is not spinal cord-related or a fracture.

"It's 100% not a broken neck or a spinal cord injury," Herman said.

All signs point to a disk injury, but Herman said one thing the doctors will be looking at is whether it was related to a previous injury.

Cornerback Jarrett Bush said it was an emotional moment for everyone. He said Collins held it together as well as he could.

"I'm sure behind closed doors," Bush said of Collins becoming emotional. "But you're not going to show anything in public. It was kind of shocking for all of us."

Details of the injury were not revealed. Collins is expected to meet with specialists before making a decision on the next course of action.

Asked if there were any career-ending implications, McCarthy said, "They're not far along in the evaluation process to make statements like that."

McCarthy said Collins is not in any pain.

"He has a neck brace on and he's walking around," he said. "You would never know (he's injured)."

McCarthy said when he first went to the podium for his post-game press conference, he had been told a pair of tests looked good. But later, before the team left, another test showed a problem.

The players said they had no idea the injury was that serious.

"I didn't think it was going to be season-ending at all," Bush said. "It's unfortunate. It was definitely hard on him. You love it so much and you work so hard, year round, to have it stop short is bad personally."

Defensive coordinator Dom Capers said Collins will be missed.

“It’s the unfortunate part of our game," Capers said. "We all know that it can happen on any given play. Nick has been a heck of a player for us and it’s hard to replace a guy like Nick. We’ll have to pick up and move forward.

"Fortunately we have a guy in Charlie Peprah that played an awful lot of football for us last year and played well. Morgan Burnett is off to excellent start. He’s had back-to-back very good games for us. We’ll have to go from there. There’s no question that Nick will be missed.”

The obvious choice Peprah, who stepped in for Morgan Burnett last year after Burnett blew out his knee. Burnett now bears a lot of responsibility for being the big-play man in the middle.

Capers said Burnett was very impressive against Carolina, coming up with two key tackles in the red zone, a sack and an interception.

"He's coming along," Capers said. "i thought he played a good game."
====================
Concerns have been raised by the National Secular Society that the UK's stance on free speech could be compromised by an agreement signed at the United Nations between this country and the Organisation of Islamic Co-operation (OIC).

The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by Baroness Sayeeda Warsi – the new "Minister for Faith" - and pledges that the UK and the OIC will "work together on issues of peace, stability and religious freedom."

At present, the OIC is agitating at the United Nations for a global blasphemy law that would make criticising or satirising religion a punishable offence.

Terry Sanderson, president of the National Secular Society, said: "We are all for co-operation between nations to try to foster peace and understanding, but the concept of 'religious freedom' is one that the OIC has distorted to mean restrictions on free expression.

"We hope that by signing this document the UK will not in any way compromise its commitment to human rights – particularly the human right to free speech. The British Government has been steadfast in its opposition to the OIC's blasphemy proposals up until now. We hope that this document will not change that in any way."

Baroness Warsi's other remit – as well as being 'Minister for Faith' – is at the Foreign Office and includes being the lead minister responsible for Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Central Asia, the UN, the International Criminal Court and the OIC, which is the largest multi-lateral organisation in the world after the UN.

She became the first British minister to speak at the OIC's conference in June 2011 in Astana, Kazakstan. Previously she had hosted the secretary-general of the OIC in London and visited its secretariat in Jeddah, while she was in Saudi Arabia for performing Hajj. This led to the appointment of Britain's first special representative to the organisation and its 57 members. Baroness Warsi has visited Pakistan five times during the past two and a half years in government, a country which was so central to the formation of the Islamic Conference.

In the landmark agreement there is a particular emphasis on promoting the "key role Muslims have played in shaping modern Britain" and encouraging Muslim communities to play a key role at all levels in public life.

Lady Warsi said: "When I addressed the OIC Conference in Kazakhstan in June 2011, I said we face the global challenges together. This agreement formalises that, establishing our many, many areas of co-operation, from security to conflict prevention; from religious freedom to human rights. One of the central aims of my new role will be to strengthen this relationship further and I am looking forward to ensuring we continue to work closely to achieve our mutual goals."

She also praised the Framework Co-operation Agreement, signed with the OIC's secretary-general, for its focus on promoting inter-religious understanding and interfaith dialogue, especially as these are two vital areas in the senior minister's new governmental role.

Terry Sanderson commented: "There is certainly a need for some kind of inter-religious understanding among OIC member states, a number of which suppress Christianity and other religions in a brutal and merciless fashion.

"The blasphemy law which is being proposed by the OIC on behalf of its members would be an entirely dangerous and regressive step if it were to be approved at the UN. It is quite clear that it would be used to persecute and oppress non-Muslim minorities in Muslim-majority countries, as the domestic blasphemy law in Pakistan does at present.

Mr Sanderson continued: "In Egypt the blasphemy laws are also used to get rid of political opponents and are sometimes used as a means of revenge by neighbours or colleagues who are in dispute. We do not need this kind of primitive legislation in our democracies and we need reassurance from our Government that their resolve remains unaffected by the signing of this agreement with the OIC."
====================
Noah Katz, 2, died after being struck by a van in the 4700 block of North Central Avenue Nov. 13. View Full Caption YouCaring/Alex Nitkin

CHICAGO — Fourty-four pedestrians were killed in the city in 2016, up 26 percent from 2014, according to data presented to the mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Committee.

Nationwide, pedestrian deaths increased approximately 10 percent in 2015, making Chicago's increase especially troubling, Chicago Department of Transportation Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld said.

"It is very sad," Scheinfeld said, adding that city officials would redouble their efforts to achieve the city's goal of eliminating death and serious injuries from traffic crashes by 2026 as part of the mayor's Vision Zero campaign.

A "significant number" of fatal pedestrian crashes occur in crosswalks — and end with the driver fleeing the scene, Scheinfeld said.

The number of pedestrians killed by motorists has been on the rise since 2013, when 29 people were killed while walking Chicago's streets, according to data compiled by city traffic engineers and the Illinois Department of Transportation. It dipped slightly last year.

The increase in fatal crashes involving pedestrians showed no sign of slowing down in the first weeks of 2017, with six people killed. In January 2016, five people died as a result of crashes.



Chicago Department of Transportation

The Governors Highway Safety Association, which represents state highway safety offices, found that an increase in motor vehicle travel and the growing use of cellphones among walkers and drivers could be among the reasons for the increase in the number of fatal crashes involving pedestrians.

Chicago Police Department Deputy Chief of Patrol George Devereux blamed the increase in deaths on "reckless driving by young people."

The increase in deaths has hit areas of Chicago where the level of economic hardship is highest, officials said.

City officials said they planned to concentrate their efforts in 14 neighborhoods that make up 20 percent of the city and 25 percent of its population — but account for 35 percent of all traffic-related injuries and deaths.

Those neighborhoods are:

• Belmont-Cragin

• Austin

• West Garfield Park

• East Garfield Park

• North Lawndale

• Humboldt Park

• West Town

• Near West Side

• Near North

• Loop

• West Englewood

• Englewood

• Washington Park

• Grand Boulevard

An action plan is under development based on the pattern of traffic crashes that will include an education plan and could propose street redesigns to make areas safer, officials said.
====================
The New England Patriots and Houston Texans meet for a Divisional round contest on Saturday night.

Here’s everything you need to know to watch the playoff matchup:

Date: Saturday, January 14, 2017

Time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Location: Gillette Stadium, Foxboro, MA

TV Channel: CBS

Broadcasters: Jim Nantz, Phil Simms

Line: Patriots (-15), per OddsShark.com

Matchup to Watch: Tom Brady vs. the Texans defense. If Houston is going to have any sliver of a chance of pulling off what would be a historic upset on the road, it’s going to need to slow down Terrific Tom, who is once again playing at an MVP level.

Fortunately for the Texans, they have one of the best defenses in the NFL, as they finished the season fifth in yards per play allowed, fourth in yards per pass attempt allowed and fifth in Football Outsiders’ pass defense efficiency ratings.

Not only will Houston’s secondary need to be on top of its game, but Jadeveon Clowney and Whitney Mercilus are going to have to create pressure. Both are capable of causing havoc in the backfield, but doing so against New England’s offensive line–and against Brady, who knows how to get the ball out quickly–is no easy task.

If Clowney and Mercilus can make Brady uncomfortable, then Houston may be able to keep this thing close. But if Brady is able to work with a clean pocket, we’ll be headed for a blowout.
====================
The Collection

The Beinecke Library’s Medieval and Renaissance collections document the history of human thought from the Byzantine era through 1600.

The first medieval manuscript recorded in the Yale collection was acquired in 1714, and was the gift of Elihu Yale. An illustrated copy of the Speculum humanae salvationis, it attracted the special attention of Yale President Ezra Stiles, who read the manuscript and annotated it in the 1790s. The systematic collecting of medieval manuscripts at Yale, however, dates from the late nineteenth century, and the most active period for collecting was after 1930.

Searching for Catalog Records

The manuscript collections have been described extensively in the Catalogue of Medieval and Renaissance Manuscripts in the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University, volumes 1-3 of which were edited by Barbara Shailor, and volume 4 of which was edited by Robert Babcock, Lisa Davis, and Philip Rusche. The full-text of these catalogues can be searched in the Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Catalog. Commonly used abbreviations are available here (pdf, 5 p.) and the Introduction, by Barbara Shailor, can be downloaded here (pdf, 8 p.).

The Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Catalog also contains records for manuscripts in the Mellon Alchemical Collection as well as short descriptions of manuscripts acquired by the Library since the publication of the Catalogue of Medieval and Renaissance Manuscripts.

Searching for Digital Images

The Beinecke Library is actively scanning its medieval and Renaissance holdings. Images can be searched by way of the “Search within this collection” box on the upper-left corner of this page and through the Library’s Digital Images database.

Incunabula in Yale Library

In addition to its manuscript holdings, the Beinecke Library holds extensive collections of incunabula, or early printed books. Records for these can be found in Orbis, the Yale University Library’s online catalog. To browse Yale’s holdings of incunables, follow these directions on the Yale Library’s Help page.

Exhibitions

A Book of Her Own: Based on a 2006 exhibition that explores books owned by women before the year 1700.

The Speculum Theologiae: A collaborative project created by Yale undergraduate students in the 2006 Medieval Studies seminar “The Medieval World of Umberto Eco’s Name of the Rose.”
====================
If you’ve been down this road with K-pop before, then you already know the deal. BTS are being discovered by Western journalists, who are quickly finding out they can monetize their rabid fandom to profit off them and advance themselves on the backs of BTS. To an extent, it only makes sense that they would do this when it comes to K-pop, as it’s the right move for views, doesn’t hurt anybody, and allows fans of the group (whether it’s BTS now or 2NE1/SNSD/Big Bang/CL before, whatever) to enjoy seeing their faves get gassed up to outlets they recognize.

The problem is that inevitably people have to take it a step further and denigrate the rest of K-pop or Korean music in general in order to do the said gassing up, thus netting them extra attention and career advancement, and then stans inevitably believe it and make a mess because everybody wants to feel like they’re a part of something truly special or unique. It’s not the best of looks from the West, especially when it’s in, say, Rolling Stone.

1. BTS write and produce socially conscious K-pop.

One look at Psy is proof enough that K-pop acts tend to focus on crafting crazy-catchy tracks with an eye toward the Western mainstream, but BTS (an acronym for the Korean term “Bangtan Songyeondan” or “bulletproof boy scouts” in English) stand out as an anomaly among their peers. While other K-pop acts focus on songs about heartbreak and partying, BTS have connected with audiences by touching on topics such as mental health (2015 album track “Whalien 52” tackles loneliness), politics (see member Rap Monster’s collaboration with Wale titled “Change”) and even female empowerment (“21st Century Girl” has been performed on Korean television). All the while, the members have writing credits on nearly all their songs and are taking on more production roles with later releases – also a rarity in K-pop. The 2016 single “Save Me” has members Rap Monster, Suga and J-Hope all credited as lyricists and producers.

Emphasis mine.

People have already been mocking this passage as ridiculous online, and it’s clearly a rather silly take that was maybe rushed or something (cause BuzzFeed-esque lists), so I don’t want to harp on it and I’ll try to keep my criticisms brief (or more than I could).

But I’ll be honest, what got me to write this was the stereotypical reliance on citing PSY as some kind of CRAZY ASIAN dumbfuck clown that proves K-pop is just stupid shit compared to the great socially conscious and wise masters of BTS. Like I get that his dance tracks are what people know and he definitely loves to make people happy with his music, but even a cursory glance at his past would reveal his protest actions and songs like “Father” and “We Are The One“. Discrediting PSY cause of his dance tracks would be as silly as discrediting BTS because their mainstream successes are owed to tracks like “I Need U” and “Fire“, ironically two songs that match well with why the article says the rest of K-pop is apparently worthy to be dismissed as sameness.

And there are many others aside from PSY, perhaps maybe rappers like MC Sniper or bands like Nell and others aren’t “K-pop”, but if Psy is then surely Tablo and Epik High are as well, and they certainly fit the socially conscious bill. Even in the out-and-out idol world, there’s BAP, Brown Eyed Girls, and IU just to list a few, and many others who aren’t known or are dead already (GLAM/Sunny Hill).

“But they are a superstar group doing it, so it’s different!”

Ah, therein lies the rub, right? They are a superstar group, but be honest, the primary mover in their popularity is not socially conscious lyrics. If people truly cared that much about the issues in music, the other socially conscious songs and artists in K-pop would’ve also blown up, right? But they didn’t, and many of the idol groups who tried that route are dead, with many of the rappers and bands going anonymous. Don’t get me wrong, it’s part of BTS’s appeal, for sure — and I would know since I’ve enjoyed analyzing their music videos and lyrics myself — but they’re an idol group and BTS are popular for much the same reason other idol groups are popular (catchy songs, superior visuals, fun personas), and there’s absolutely nothing wrong with that. But glossing it up like they’re doing some shit nobody else does in terms of social message is just a disservice to Korean music, in general.

That’s all.

——

This whole situation now is funny, because shit like this is exactly why I called out Billboard (and that’s who I was targeting, don’t get it twisted) by saying nobody looks for the site or awards in the West and that they and others will use your fandom and faves, and thus got labelled a BTS anti. But the whole point was always that BTS don’t need to be gassed up by the West with this type of bullshit for them to matter, because with or without them they’re still globally popular and dominating, and the fact that they can be used like this by journalists is testament to that. They need them and you, not the other way around.

Billboard low-key trying to take credit for shit BTS were accomplishing anyway is exactly what I meant but whatever. — Asian Junkie (@asianjunkiecom) May 23, 2017

Also, because unless it’s explicitly stated my mentions get ruined for a few days, I do like BTS themselves quite a bit, and you can go back in their tag on this site for evidence of that. But this isn’t about them or a criticism of them, it’s a criticism of Western outlets and them being used, and how being a fan of BTS’s work doesn’t mean one has to be deluded about denigrating the rest of K-pop as a whole, or worse, Korean music.
====================
This week's Big Question: What is the worst injury you've seen a guy play through?

Ryan Johansen, C, Columbus Blue Jackets: "My ex-teammate taking 36 stitches, Matty Calvert. Taking 36 stitches in the head and he's the type of guy, he would smile and say, 'Hurry up, I want to get back out there right now.' He's a horse. He takes a lot of pride in it and that's a role he's come into and he's an animal. Does that count?"

Jeff Petry, D, Montreal Canadiens: "Taylor Hall getting stepped on. No helmet, warmups, stepped on a puck and guy came around the corner trying to get over him and stepped right on his forehead and split him wide open. You see his face. You could see him put his hand up to his face and there's no blood and then the next time he goes up, it's coming and it was ugly. It was ugly."

James van Riemsdyk, RW, Toronto Maple Leafs: "The craziest one I saw, my first year in Philly, Ian Laperriere took a slap shot in the face, a one-timer, and it knocked out, like, 15 of his teeth. And he made it back for the third period. That was pretty crazy."

Chris Pronger: "Jason Smith in Edmonton broke the ball of his foot. It was broken and he tried to play on it. I'm like, 'Dude, you can't.' And he was, 'Eh.' I can't imagine how much that had to hurt. Just think of the ball of your foot. That's a pressure point. You have to push there. Skating backwards, you're pushing on that. Skating forwards, you're pushing on that. I can't imagine the pain he was in trying to skate through that."

After a slap shot to his face knocked out several teeth in the first period, Ian Laperriere returned for the third on Nov. 27, 2009. Scott Cunningham/NHLI via Getty Images

Kevin Shattenkirk, D, St. Louis Blues: "I played with Barret Jackman and he made his injuries seem so small and minuscule, where I think I would've been out three to four weeks. ... He had something going on one year, might have been his last year with his elbow. I'm not sure if it was tendinitis or what, but he couldn't straighten his elbow out past 45 degrees and all season he played through it. Every game you knew he was hurt, but he'd go out there and next thing you know, he's using that same elbow to knock someone in the back of the head. He was the guy, to me, [who] was just a warrior. He could play through anything. He wouldn't wear any of it on his face."

Mike Green, D, Detroit Red Wings: "John Erskine played with, I don't know if it was a fractured neck or something, herniated disk in his neck. He played with it for I don't know how long, the guy could barely move his neck when he came to the rink. After a couple years going more into it, looking into it, he ended up having surgery and didn't play. At the time you don't know, but at the same time playing through that is intense."

Kevin Bieksa, D, Anaheim Ducks: "You want to hear broken bones and stuff like that, right? I think the thing is, a lot of people have micro fractures in their feet and hands, and a lot of times it doesn't show up right away on X-rays. I know I have. I know [Ryan Kesler] has. We've played through broken bones on our feet before. It doesn't show up right away. After you're in pain for a week or two, you realize this thing isn't getting better, so you get a CAT scan. Sometimes it just doesn't show up. Things like that are hard to play with."

Kevin Bieksa knows what it's like to play through injuries. Debora Robinson/NHLI via Getty Images

Shane Doan, C, Arizona Coyotes: "Danny Markov got hit with a full snap shot in the face in Columbus. I don't know how many stitches he had, in the 30s, in his face. He was back before the game ended. It was bad, bad. Broken stuff. Teppo Numminen was the toughest guy that nobody gave credit for. Him and Zbynek Michalek -- those guys played through broken hands, broken feet, broken fingers, toes. The guys that are the toughest, you don't even know it's broken. If I have an injury, I might be limping halfway down the hallway to make sure everyone sees [laughs]. The guys that are tough, you don't even see it. I think as a player, you appreciate that so much. Daymond Langkow, he broke his toe so bad. Big toe. It was shattered. They were freezing it every night. He is so tough. They stuck the needle in to freeze it. They finished freezing it and in order to get [the needle] in, they had to wiggle [the needle] around to get it through deep into his toe. They stuck it in and it hurt, you could see him getting in pain. He comes walking back in the room and is like, 'The freezing didn't work.' Sometimes it doesn't; in Arizona, the heat takes away the effectiveness of the painkiller. He went back in and they're like, 'No, it might just take some time.' They start feeling around and his sock was wet. They were like, 'What the heck?' They stuck it through his big toe, all the way through, and injected it into his sock."

Corey Crawford, G, Chicago Blackhawks: "There's been a bunch. [Andrew] Shaw, his whole body was banged up in 2013. His face, and he had a couple of pretty significant injuries too. When you get towards the end of a playoff run there's almost a guarantee that half the team is battling with something. It's that intense, and you have to [play through injuries] at that point. You're working so hard that somebody's battling with something."

Editor's Picks Big Question: Why is Connor McDavid so good? For this week's Big Question, we ask around the league to find out just what makes Edmonton Oilers captain Connor McDavid -- the 19-year-old leading the league in scoring -- so darn good

Big Question: Concussion protocol The NHL has taken its handling of concussions to the next level, removing players from games if they appear to have taken a dangerous hit to the head. Was it the right move? We asked the experts.

Weber left lasting legacy in Nashville Shea Weber was traded to the Canadiens last June, but as the former Predators captain returns to Nashville to face his old team, he remains beloved by the many fans he helped in Music City. 2 Related

Ben Bishop, G, Tampa Bay Lightning: "You could probably make a list. I think personally when I had a torn ligament in my wrist, so I was playing with a cast a couple of years ago for half a season, so that was more of an annoyance. But yeah, these guys play through lots. Broken foot. Broken ribs. ... We had to make [my glove] bigger. It was like a hard cast pretty much during when I played. I couldn't bend. I just couldn't bend it. I had a kind of a cast on it, so I didn't really feel much."

Cam Fowler, D, Anaheim Ducks: "My first couple of years in the playoffs, in between every period, [Toni Lydman] couldn't take his own jersey off, so the trainer would have to come in and take his jersey off for him because his shoulder was so bad. But he played the whole playoffs, didn't miss a game, so that was pretty crazy to me. Greatest guy ever too."

Nazem Kadri, C, Toronto Maple Leafs: "Probably a high ankle sprain. That's gruesome. You tweak it almost every single shift. I've seen a couple of guys play through a high ankle sprain, and you got to give them a lot of credit."

-- Joe McDonald, Craig Custance, Scott Burnside, Pierre LeBrun, Paul Grant
====================
A giant poster brought into a Toronto FC game against the Montreal Impact Saturday night has left fans of both teams crying foul.

The poster depicted a man in the red colours of Toronto FC, with a woman wearing underwear in Montreal Impact blue kneeling in front of him, suggesting a sexual act. In bold letters, it had a phrase meaning "Montreal sucks."

"A big banner of a woman on her knees implying fellatio and the phrase 'Montreal you suck' is a disgrace," the Twitter user wrote, linking to a photo of the poster.

The Toronto club apologized to Twitter users who expressed their disapproval, saying the poster was unacceptable.

"Upsetting to say the least," the club wrote to one soccer fan.

"We will look into this. This is not OK."

<a href="https://twitter.com/girlsloveIMFC">@girlsloveIMFC</a> not okay by any means. We are looking into it. I'm sorry. —@torontofc

Official complaint coming

At least one Impact fan says she will file an official complaint with Major League Soccer.

Elizabeth Cotignola wasn't at the game but saw the poster being shared on Twitter.

"I perceived it not even as an Impact fan seeing it as a slight towards Impact fans but as a woman seeing it as sexist, misogynic imagery," she told CBC. "It made my blood boil."

Cotignola posted to Twitter that she would file a complaint and says she's received a lot of positive support.

<a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/IMFC?src=hash">#IMFC</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/TFC?src=hash">#TFC</a> fans, if anyone wants to submit a formal complaint, I'll author one and send it to <a href="https://twitter.com/MLS">@MLS</a>. Let me know if you want to co-sign. —@LaDiavolina

"The reason I'd like this documented and formalized is because this isn't an issue that's specifically tied to this one incident, in this one fan base, in this one game," she said.

"It's been a problem across a lot of venues at Major League Soccer and other sporting venues. I think we're now really cognizant, in 2016, that sports is a fairly toxic domain for women."

Cotignola says the league has to take a firm stance on the issue of sexism.

CBC News has asked for comment from Toronto FC, the Montreal Impact and Major League Soccer, but has not yet heard back.
====================
OWINGS MILLS, Md. -- Baltimore Ravens coach John Harbaugh said referees wouldn't be rusty in the preseason if they spent more time at training camp.

Referees are required to be at only three training camp practices a year, and Harbaugh has proposed that the NFL increase the requirement. However, according to Harbaugh, the league said the refs union won't allow that.

"Gosh, you're doing something at the highest level possible," Harbaugh said after practice Saturday. "You're at the top of the field. You'd think you'd need more than three days of practice a year to really be good at it. So I don't think it's really an outrageous thing to ask for."

Harbaugh made this point after noting that officials missed an intentional grounding penalty in the Ravens' preseason opener against the New Orleans Saints on Thursday.

John Harbaugh thinks refs would be more prepared for games if they were required to attend more than three training camp practices. Rick Osentoski/USA TODAY Sports

"If they got more practice time in training camp, I think they'd do a little bit better," he said.

Harbaugh is in favor of having officials at every one of his practices.

"We think that makes us better and certainly makes the officials better, too," he said.

Harbaugh doesn't understand why officials aren't at more practices. He said every referee he's spoken with has been in favor of attending more practices.

"My proposal is that they get together and get on the same page," Harbaugh said. "Maybe talk to one another and solve a problem once in a while instead of creating a problem."
====================
Two sham charities that nationally raised tens of millions of dollars for cancer victims but instead used much of it to fuel the lifestyles of their founders have settled a lawsuit brought by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general.

The Cancer Fund of America and Cancer Support Services, and founder James Reynolds Sr. and his son James Reynolds II, agreed to pay nearly $76 million and turn their businesses over to court-appointed receivers, according to a joint announcement made early Wednesday by secretaries of state across the country.

The groups were based in Tennessee but raised money across the country.

The money is a small portion of the $187 million the Reynolds and the groups allegedly collected from unsuspecting consumers between 2008 and 2012, according to the lawsuit filed in May 2015 in U.S. District Court in Arizona.

The money was used for a variety of personal expenses including trips to Disneyland, luxury cars, boats and cruises. About three cents of every dollar actually was used to help cancer patients, officials said.

Before the complaint was filed, two other Reynolds-associated charities — the Children’s Cancer Fund of America and the Breast Cancer Society — agreed to settle. The Breast Cancer Society agreed to pay more than $65.5 million and a receiver was appointed to liquidate their assets and remunerate victims.

It’s unclear how much of the $131.5 million in total settlements from the cancer case will end up in Colorado or its residents.

“The mountains of evidence that my staff helped to sift through clearly indicated that these were sham charities characterized by nepotism and the most cynical exploitation of grieving survivors, struggling caregivers and concerned citizens who wanted to make a meaningful contribution to the fight against cancer,” Colorado Secretary of State Wayne Williams said in a statement. “Anyone whose family or friends have been affected by cancer — and sadly that includes most of us — will share my sense of determination to act against these fraudsters who plucked at our heartstrings and took our money but had no purpose in mind for these funds other than self-enrichment.”

Attorney General Cynthia Coffman said she’s pressing for legislative changes in Colorado to ensure violators can more easily be investigated and prosecuted.

“Because of the harm these criminals do to both legitimate charities and to those in need, I am advocating for changes to Colorado’s Charitable Solicitations Act this session,” she said, noting House Bill 1129 would stiffen penalties as well.

The federal lawsuit accused the groups of falsifying financial documents in order to cover up their misdeeds. In several cases the groups allegedly fixed company ledgers by overvaluing donations to cancer patients on items such as plastic cutlery and snack treats.

Although the groups told potential donors that 100 percent of all funds went to help cancer victims, the reality was hardly any of it did, instead showering workers and their friends with enormous salaries and other perks.

The complaint lays out lavishness such as subscriptions to dating websites, purchases at restaurants such as Hooters and lingerie from Victoria’s Secret. There was spending on college tuition for families, a boat, jet-ski rides and personal cruises to island destinations in the Caribbean.

Prosecutors alleged that Reynolds expanded his enterprise from its inception in 1987 to include his son, their friends and members of their Mormon Church congregation in Knoxville, Tenn.

The settlement comes a month after the companies agreed in federal court to a court-appointed receiver.

David Migoya: 303-954-1506, dmigoya@denverpost.com or @davidmigoya
====================
The WikiLeaks release of Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta’s emails has revealed many unseemly truths about the former secretary of state and her staff.

One email in particular might leave her little miffed, as it insulted her daughter, Chelsea. In the 2012 email, Podesta responded to one of former President Bill Clinton’s former assistants, Doug Band, who happened to describe Chelsea as “not smart.”

Band was upset because Chelsea had told one of former President George W. Bush’s daughters that she had launched an internal investigation of the Clinton Foundation’s finances. That information somehow made its way to a Republican operative.

“I have heard more and more chatter of (Chelsea) and (Barbara) talking about lots of what is going on internally to people,” Band said in the email. “Not smart.”

Podesta’s response expresses how he felt about Chelsea succinctly.

“You are perfecting your skills for understatement,” he said.

Ouch.

This wasn’t the first time Chelsea has been mentioned in hacked emails in an unfavorable light. Band also called Chelsea a “spoiled brat kid” for attempting to usurp his position in another email.

There’s a lot of information coming out in the Podesta emails, and most of it should leave the former senator mad or embarrassed — or both — because it seems like the more emails we have access to, the more we realize the level of corruption that exists in the Clinton world.

Nevertheless, a jab at her own daughter might sting. Knowing what her staff actually thinks of Chelsea must also get under the nominee’s skin. The truths sometimes hurts — especially for someone so unaccustomed to dealing with truth. Like us on Facebook – USA Liberty News Share this story on Facebook and Twitter and let us know what you think about Podesta’s remark insinuating that Chelsea Clinton is not so bright.

How do you think Hillary Clinton reacted when she saw this email? Scroll down to comment below!

Source: conservativetribune.com

H/T The Daily Caller
====================
Airports Consider Using Private Security Screeners

Enlarge this image toggle caption John Moore/Getty Images John Moore/Getty Images

Following the furor over invasive airport security screenings and personal pat-downs, some airports are now considering replacing government security screeners with private companies.

It's a step the new chairman of the House Transportation Committee has been urging the nation's airports to take. But it's not clear travelers would notice much of a difference.

The Kansas City International Airport is one of 17 in the United States where the screeners work for private contractors, not the Transportation Security Administration.

The airport's director, Mark VanLoh, is expecting to be busy this winter: "I will be giving a lot of tours in the next few months from airports all over the country coming to Kansas City to check us out."

Using private contractors does make a difference, VanLoh says.

"In my opinion, these contract employees -- they're not federal employees; they're not guaranteed a job for life," he says. "If they don't meet the performance goals or maybe they're consistently rude, or maybe they miss objects that go through the machine, they are terminated. I can't remember how easy that would be to do with a federal employee. I don't think it is."

Under TSA Supervision

Kansas City was one of the first airports after the Sept. 11 attacks to use screeners hired by private contractors. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, which created the TSA, also gave airports the option of using private security screeners. Those that have range in size from San Francisco's international airport to the regional facility in Tupelo, Miss.

With private screeners, the security line operates the same way it does at airports where TSA handles the screening: Travelers remove their shoes; take out their laptops. They go through the same full-body scanners and are subject to the same pat-downs. In fact, the private security firms are actually hired by the TSA, and the screeners work under TSA supervision and guidelines.

But Republican Rep. John Mica of Florida, the new chairman of the House Transportation Committee, maintains that the private contract screeners are better. Last November, before he even took the reins at the committee, he sent letters to some 200 airports, urging them to consider converting from TSA screeners to a private screening program.

Mica's office did not respond to requests for an interview. But it in a clip posted on his website, Mica cited a Government Accountability Office report about private screeners.

"The private screening under federal supervision works and performs statistically significantly better, so our main purpose here is in getting better screening and better performance, not to mention that we can get better cost for the taxpayers," he said.

A Fragmented System?

Mica says the TSA has become, in his words, an unwieldy bureaucracy with 67,000 employees -- something, he said, that was never envisioned.

The TSA will say only that all screeners are subject to the same training and performance requirements.

It's not clear that hiring private screeners saves the government any money. And aviation analyst Robert Mann, a former airline executive, is dubious about returning to what he says was a fragmented system before the Sept. 11 attacks.

"It's likely that a private contractor would manage front-line employees to a different customer service standard than would a federal workforce, but if they're required to use the same technology, if they're required to meet the same screening standards and techniques, then the likelihood is it's a nicer wrapper on the same process," he says.

Mann says security should be focused on stopping terrorists rather than discovering objects, and that the debate over whether screeners get their paychecks directly from the TSA or from a private contractor matters little in the end.
====================
Description

the jank is real!



The Deck is a RG ramp deck with the usual suspects of big dudes, dorks, and my favorite Jank!



So what is this monstrosity doing? Winning. Hopefully.

In essence early game you ramp with dorks and spells when you get mana play big things such as Sunbird's Invocation. This Card is the nuts it literally can just win the game. Picture this turn 5 sunbird's invocation Turn 6 Cast Combustable Gearhulk or Rishkar's Expertise Sunbird into another one of them. If it was an expertise you then cast ANOTHER spell count it 3 cards for the price of one, if TCGplayer had that sale on any card you'd probably pick it up. That is the main goal of this deck being nutz if you don't get an invocation though just play it as a ramp deck gets big dudes out faster than your opponent.



Some choices in this deck could be changed like Ancient Borntodon could be carnage tyrant but personally, I like the bigger more expensive threat (as it hits any card in our deck off invocation) and cause I'm cheap and don't want to buy the tyrant of wallets.



The sideboard plan

well it's early in the meta and idk hat will be played at my shop so you're on your own for now I'd suggest the normal anti control snake-cat and removal
====================
“Jane, I’m really nervous about Johnny. I’m worried about him.”

It was a regular Wednesday afternoon and my dad had called my mom at work. There was a lot of concern in his voice.

“I just don’t think he has it. He’s not going make it as a hockey player. I don’t think he has it in him.”

My mom was silent on the other end of the line for a beat before responding.

“Guy, he’s only three years old. Give it some time.”

I know the saying “I was born to become a hockey player” is a little cliché, but I don’t know how else to put it. My dad owns a hockey rink and he was sharpening my first pair of skates while I was still in the womb.

He tried to wait out my infancy, but it must have been frustrating for him. When I turned two, he started trying to teach me how to skate. It didn’t go so well, given that I was still getting a handle on walking. But he’d put me out there and hope for the best. So there’d I’d be in the middle of the ice, floundering around, while I imagine my dad was off to the side, shaking his head.

I guess he decided the reason I wasn’t doing double axels was because I needed motivation, so as a new teaching strategy he began throwing Skittles on the ice and getting me to chase after them. Out of necessity, I’d crawl towards each individual Skittle, desperately reaching. After a while, I guess my desire for sugar coaxed me to get up and start skating a few strides between them. In general, it’s not recommended you throw debris on the ice, but I guess there are some perks to owning your own rink.

My father grew up in Vermont, where he was raised on a dairy farm. He didn’t have much money growing up, but he did have a pair of skates. So for fun, he would glide on the ponds around the farm during the winter, stick-handling around rocks and branches. He didn’t have the grades for D-1, but he did play Division-III hockey at Norwich University. Had a great career there, ended up making the school’s Hall of Fame in hockey as well as soccer.

After that, he moved to New Jersey, about 20 minutes outside of Philly, and built an ice rink. It’s two large sheets of ice, with bleachers to hold a few hundred folks and a snack bar. Whenever you walk in, you’re hit with that smell of perfectly brisk ice with just a faint hint of smelly gear. It’s … heaven.

So yeah, I was going to be a hockey player.

As a kid I had the ice available to me whenever I wanted. I definitely abused that privilege. During my formative years, I probably spent more time in skates than I did shoes. I had 10 or 15 close buddies, and we’d spend every possible hour we could playing shinny. I’ve played on plenty of teams and been to more practices than I can remember, but I learned how to play the game during those hours upon hours when I was laughing and goofing around on the ice. When you’re among friends, you don’t worry about screwing up when you’re trying out moves. But I think once you get those reps in and aren’t self-conscious about screwing up, the difficult parts of the game become second nature. The flow of things seems natural. And you get to figure out on your own what you love about hockey.

For me, it was scoring goals. Always has been.

As a kid, I was pretty shameless about it. I’d spend entire games cherry-picking along the blue line, waiting for the puck to pop out so I could go for a breakaway. My dad would give me a hard time about it, but he never lectured me — probably because I kept scoring. As I got older, yes, I got more skilled, but my desire to score also grew. I just … thought about it a lot. Daydreaming about what move I’d do if the goalie did this or that. It excited me.

When I was a teenager, there was this festival team for my area that I would try out for every year. A festival team is basically an all-star team for a particular district. All the different districts compile a team of their best players, then meet up at a big event to play one another in front of a bunch of scouts and college coaches. For a kid like myself, it meant everything.

You had four years to make the team between the ages of 13 and 16. I made it my first year and was really excited, but the next two years I got cut. It was pretty simple: other kids were getting bigger and I wasn’t. That reality really brought me down. I didn’t think I was getting any worse at hockey, but those are the ages where you’re supposed to start showing long-term potential. It’s the time when the herd gradually starts to thin, and a lot of kids lose interest in the sport after getting cut a few times.

I took not being included on those teams pretty hard. I’d looked up to smaller guys when I was younger. I’d watch players like Danny Briere and Martin St. Louis, and quietly think to myself, “Why not me?”

But when I was 15 and cut from that team, I thought I might be reaching the end of the road. Ultimately, it was my dad who really lifted me up when I lost hope. He refused to let me believe that I wasn’t good enough. “They don’t like you because you’re small, John. That’s it.” He’d always plant that seed in the back of my mind that I was going to prove everybody wrong. I was going to force people to ignore my size because of my production.

The final year I was eligible to try out for the festival team, I didn’t even want to go. I was too scared of failure. I didn’t know if I could take getting cut again. But my dad wasn’t hearing it. He told me I’d been playing hockey my whole life, and it was time to go out there and prove I could play with these guys.

He was right. I ended up making the team, and went to the tournament where I proved I belonged. Next thing you know, I’m getting invited to play for USA Hockey in a U-17 tournament. My performance there led to more college opportunities, and then everything kind of took off.

*

My focus was never squarely on making it to the NHL. I always just tried to advance to the next level, one rung at a time. It’s important to take it slow, because if you immediately try to compare your game to the guys playing in the league, you’re going to get down on yourself pretty quick.

I’ll never forget my first development camp with the Flames. I was just a college kid in every sense. And I saw these NHL players out there on the ice, and all I could think was, “What am I doing here?” I was so wide-eyed, I almost wanted to ask for autographs. Then the next development camp a year later, my attitude shifted to, “I think I know what I’m doing here.” Until finally I got to the point where I was on the ice with NHL players and felt okay telling myself, “I know what I’m doing here.”

Through it all, I learned a few things that I think might be useful to smaller guys hoping to make it to the next level.

The first thing is that you have to get a thick skin. I’ve heard my fair share of chirps throughout the years. Different things about my size, said in so many ways … including plenty of stuff I’m not so comfortable repeating here. Get used to it, because it’ll come. Everyone handles it differently, but I’ve never been a big chirper myself because the sound of the goal horn is loud enough.

You’re always going to have people on you about your size, so do what you can to be in on the joke. Last All-Star weekend, Ryan Johansen brought out a little kid during the penalty shootout and scored a goal with him. So as a gag, Jakub Voracek came up to me and asked if he could use me as a prop for his shot.

I thought it was hilarious.

Hockey players can give each other a hard time, but ultimately this is a family. It’s really a big community of people connected by a common passion. I think that’s why we’re able to do this kind of stuff and not worry about people thinking less of us. Even at the highest level, we’re out there having fun.

Next piece of advice, keep your head up. Always. You’re not built to take heavy shots, so you have to be twice as careful out there. This one I learned the hard way.

We were playing against the Detroit Red Wings my rookie year, and during one play I was the last man back. I had the puck on my stick and looked up to see who else but Pavel Datsyuk — coming right for me.

Every hockey fan knows what can go wrong here: Magic Man pokes the puck off of your stick, goes for a breakaway and you’re left in the background while he uses some kind of sorcery on the goalie.

So I knew I had to make a smart play. I faked one way, then passed the puck the other direction up the ice. Crisis averted.

… I thought.

Yeah, that one hurt.

Datsyuk went right through my chest and I just went flying. That was probably the hardest hit I’ve ever taken, and it was by one of the most skilled players I’ll ever face. That’s just not fair. Eventually I got back to the bench and sat there winded for a few shifts, reflecting on what it’s like to be run over by a Russian locomotive. The boys let me hear about that one after the game.

It was definitely a lesson. We associate a lot of players with their offensive prowess most of the time. It’s easy to forget that these guys are the best in the world defensively as well. If you leave yourself open for a hit, you’re going to get hit.

Finally, and most importantly, my advice to the little kids out there who quietly have that dream inside of them to play in the NHL: have fun right now. If you do pursue this career, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to take hockey very, very seriously. But right now, just appreciate and build on whatever you love about the game. Enjoy hanging out with your buddies on the ice. No matter how big you make it, you’ll miss that time when it’s gone. Try that move out, look silly, and get better. As long as you’re smaller, your best skill needs to be your effort. It doesn’t matter where you’re playing or if you’re getting cut from teams. If you have the talent, the right person will find you.

It took a lot of work at every level, but I think now people finally understand what I’ve always known. I’m not a grinder. I’m not a gimmick. And, in general, I’m just not a big guy.

But I don’t need to be. I’m a hockey player.
====================
ADVERTISEMENT

Thursday night in Iowa, Fox News will host the third big Republican debate of the 2012 presidential nominating race, and it's a "make or break" event for the GOP hopefuls, says William Bennett at CNN. The debate is the last big face-off before Saturday's Ames Straw Poll — an early test of political strength in the Hawkeye State, and one on which some candidates (like Tim Pawlenty) have all but staked their candidacies. Here, five keys to the debate:

1. Romney is the only candidate who doesn't need to shine

"Mitt Romney is in an enviable position for a Republican quasi-frontrunner," says David Weigel at Slate. He will appear on the debate stage with several candidates desperate to win the Ames Straw Poll and prove they're the only viable "anti-Mitt" in the field. But so far, none has met that threshold. And Romney, who's largely ignored Iowa, is "the only candidate who can afford a low finish in Ames," says CNN's Bennett. What's more, he has the money, name recognition, and stature to survive a poor debate performance.

2. Bachmann may be a target

Rep. Michele Bachmann's winning performance in the last debate catapulted her to the front of the pack that's chasing Romney. This time around, look for her to "get some flak" from her under-the-gun rivals, says Jamie Dupree in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

3. An absent candidate could steal the show

Bachmann's rising star could be eclipsed by "the politician whose name is on the lips of Republican officials across the state — Texas Gov. Rick Perry," says Ralph Hallow in The Washington Times. Sure, Perry won't be onstage Thursday, but he's expected to announce his intention to run for president this weekend. As such, Perry will be "the shadow hovering over the debate hall, waiting to suck up the political oxygen," say Maggie Haberman and Alexander Burns at Politico. Even if the candidates avoid mentioning Perry, it's unlikely the panelists and moderators will shy away from name-checking him.

4. This is Pawlenty's "make-or-break moment"

"If the Iowa Republican debate were to provide a truly accurate mirror of the race at this juncture, Tim Pawlenty would wear a sandwich board, with a scrawled plea to the state's voters: 'Save me,'" says Frank Bruni at The New York Times. Flailing in the polls, Pawlenty's showing in the debate and straw poll "could be a make-or-break moment for his presidential campaign," says Michael Shear in The New York Times. He started sinking after infamously pulling some punches in the last debate, says CNN's Bennett, so Pawlenty's key task Thursday is to "show he will stand up to fellow Republicans, especially Romney."

5. Huntsman needs to make a strong national debut

This is the first GOP debate for Jon Huntsman and it's "crucial to his campaign," says Holly Bailey at Yahoo! News. A conspicuously moderate candidate, Huntsman got a lot of "early buzz," but his "candidacy has failed to catch fire, and in recent weeks, most of the headlines about his campaign have focused on internal strife among his staff." Look for the former Utah governor to try to "dominate the field on economic issues," say Maeve Reston and Paul West in the Los Angeles Times. Like Romney, Huntsman is staking his candidacy on his "combination of private sector and executive experience."
====================
The only animal victim of the 26/11 terror attack is still in Parel animal hospital, but is now peaceful and happy. The stray dog that was seriously injured in the attack at CST has made the hospital its home for the past five years and is said to be living happily in an open enclosure on the premises.

“Sheru is our VIP guest,” said SB Kadam, assistant secretary of Bombay Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Parel, and added that the dog is kept in a separate 20x20 feet enclosure with a 10x10 feet toilet inside. Sheru mingles with all the hospital staff, Kadam said.

Dog lovers, who visit the hospital, never go without meeting Sheru, who survived after sustaining bullet injuries. He is healthy and now over 10 years old.

Recalling Sheru’s arrival on November 26, 2008, Kadam said, “Then five years old, he was bleeding profusely and was in tremendous shock. An x-ray showed a bullet of AK-47 had gone through his left shoulder blade and come out from the other side. After an hour-long operation, he was kept under observation in the ICU for six months before being shifted to the enclosure.”The hospital staff named him Sheru, because he fought death.

Shripad Naik, a photojournalist, had gone to CST on November 26, 2008 to cover the attack. During his visit, some railway staffers told him that a stray dog had been seriously injured and was lying near the station. Naik, with the help of two other people, took it to Parel animal hospital.

“Whenever Naik visits Sheru, the dog immediately starts wagging its tail in recognition,” said Kadam.
====================
By: Megan Gannon, News Editor

Published: 04/04/2013 02:48 PM EDT on LiveScience

Scientists have discovered two new species of strange-looking microbes that live in the bellies of termites, and they've named the creatures Cthulhu and Cthylla, an ode to H.P. Lovecraft's pantheon of horrible monsters.

Even though Lovecraft said the mere existence of Cthulhu was beyond human comprehension, the 20th-century American sci-fi author described the ocean-dwelling creature as vaguely anthropomorphic, but with an octopus-like head, a face full of feelers, and a scaly, rubbery, bloated body with claws and narrow wings.

The microbe Cthulhu macrofasciculumque doesn't appear quite as frightful under a microscope, but it does have a bundle of more than 20 flagella that resembles a tuft of tentacles beating in sync.

"When we first saw them under the microscope they had this unique motion, it looked almost like an octopus swimming," researcher Erick James, of the University of British Columbia, said in a statement. [See Images of the Squiggly Lovecraft Monsters]

Lovecraft described the ocean-dwelling creature as vaguely anthropomorphic, but with an octopus-like head, a face full of feelers, and a scaly, rubbery, bloated body with claws and narrow wings.

Cthylla microfasciculumque, meanwhile, is smaller sporting just five flagella, and is named for the Cthylla, the secret daughter of Cthulhu, generally portrayed as a winged cephalopod. Cthylla was not a creation of Lovecraft, but rather British writer Brian Lumley, who added to the "Cthulhu Mythos" in the 1970s.

The little protists, smaller than a tenth of a millimeter, are part the rich community of gut microbes that help termites turn wood into digestible sugar (which is why the pests can eat up the walls of a home fairly quickly).

"The huge diversity of microbial organisms is a completely untapped resource," said James. "Studying protists can tell us about the evolution of organisms. Some protists cause diseases, but others live in symbiotic relationships, like these flagellates in the intestines of termites."

James and colleagues published their findings online March 18 in the journal PLOS ONE.

If you're curious about how to say the names of the newfound creatures out loud, the researchers note that Lovecraft gave different pronunciations for Cthulhu because the name was supposed to come from an alien language, impossible for the human vocal capacity to mimic. "Ke-thoo-loo" is thought to be the safe approximation for Cthulhu, whereas Cthylla is often pronounced "ke-thil-a."

Follow Megan Gannon on Twitter and Google+. Follow us @livescience, Facebook & Google+. Original article on LiveScience.com.

Copyright 2013 LiveScience, a TechMediaNetwork company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
====================
Some bicycle and pedestrian safety advocates aren’t pleased with comments Mayor Martin J. Walsh made on Boston Public Radio Tuesday.

During a live interview with the station, Walsh said pedestrians and bicyclists need to do their part to help reduce and avoid fatal and nonfatal crashes with cars in the city by more closely following the rules of the road.

Walsh said that pedestrians, specifically, need to keep their heads up while walking down the street, take their headphones off, stay within the crosswalks, and obey traffic lights.

Advertisement

“You can’t be running across the middle of the street. You’ve got to understand — cars are going to hit you,” Walsh said during the interview, which was broadcast live from the WGBH Studio at the Boston Public Library. “People need to be more cognizant of the fact that a car is a car.”

Get Metro Headlines in your inbox: The 10 top local news stories from metro Boston and around New England delivered daily. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here

Walsh said the same goes for cyclists, who are often criticized by drivers if they ride through red lights or stop signs.

“When you’re riding, a car can’t stop on a dime,” he said. “And a bike can’t stop on a dime, so people need to understand that. All of us need to understand that we need to coexist together on the roads of our city, and on the streets of our city, and we need to stop running across the street and we need to start following the rules. The rules of the road are there for a reason.”

Even before he made those statements, Walsh seemed to know it would elicit some type of reaction, due to the sensitivity of the subject matter.

“This is where I’m going to get myself in trouble right now on this show,” Walsh told the show’s hosts.

Advertisement

Earlier this month, a 29-year-old cyclist was killed in the Back Bay by a hit-and-run driver.

Shortly after the interview, bicycle and pedestrian safety advocates called out Walsh for what they say were misguided and misinformed statements that placed the blame for crashes on those who are most vulnerable on the streets.

“Boston’s clueless Mayor . . . blames bicyclists, Pedestrians for lethal crashes,” Steve Bercu, president of the Boston Cyclists Union, said on Twitter.

He added, “People keep dying on Boston’s streets because pedestrians wear headphones and need education? You’ve got to be [expletive] kidding me.”

In an e-mail to the Globe, Becca Wolfson, the group’s executive director, said they were “extremely disappointed to read and hear the interview” with Walsh, which was published on WGBH’s website shortly after it aired.

Advertisement

“After people walking and biking have been hit and killed by people driving cars, people are quick to ask ‘Were they wearing a helmet? Were they wearing headphones, or looking at their phone?’ ” Wolfson said. “And in reality, we should be asking whether the driver was speeding, or whether they were distracted and on their phone. The answer is often yes.”

Wolfson said the city has a responsibility to make the streets safer, and is instead blaming victims.

Stacy Thompson, executive director of LivableStreets Alliance, which strives for better biking, walking, and public transit in the Boston area, said to the mayor’s credit, he cares about data and numbers.

But, Thompson added, if Walsh were to took a look at data collected by his staff, “he would see that the vast majority of people injured while walking and biking are children or older adults,” and not necessarily people listening to their headphones and trying to dodge traffic.

“It’s your grandmother, your child, your best friend — not a stereotype,” Thompson said.

Thompson said Walsh’s comments conflict with the administration’s Vision Zero goal, which aims to eliminate serious traffic crashes in the city by 2030.

“This is a step back,” Thompson said.

StreetPAC Mass, which describes itself as an independent political action committee that works to elect officials who want to bring changes to the streets, also weighed in on the subject.

In a tweet, the group said that the mayor’s comments on air were “irresponsible.”

“Drivers were responsible for all 22 fatalities on Boston streets in 2016,” the group claimed.

Irresponsible statements from @marty_walsh.

Drivers were responsible for all 22 fatalities on Boston streets in 2016https://t.co/4ajPOWxaIc — StreetsPAC MASS (@StreetsPAC_MASS) May 16, 2017

Steve Annear can be reached at steve.annear@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @steveannear
====================
Tenzin Gyatso, who some call “Dalai Lama” and other funny names, has been awarded the 2012 Templeton Prize, as announced here, and if you look at the given justification, you could be excused for mistaking the Templeton Prize for a straight science award and Tenzin for a scientist. Tenzin has supposedly a

“long-standing engagement with multiple dimensions of science”

“Specifically, he encourages serious scientific investigative reviews of the power of compassion and its broad potential to address the world's fundamental problems”

The latter reminds of prayer healing and the flawed studies that support it. But it goes on about Tenzin the scientist who is apparently more science than “creation science” or “intelligent design theory”, so that it is all justified in the

“interest of the founder of the Templeton Prize, the late Sir John Templeton, in seeking to bring scientific methods to the study of spiritual claims”

Sure, there was an interest of the late John Templeton to bring some science to the study of spiritual claims, but is what Tenzin Gyatso thinks science to be anything more scientific than that

“He often notes that the rigorous commitment of Buddhists to meditative investment and reflection similarly follows the strict rules of investigation, proof and evidence required of science.”

While Templeton Prizes usually go to people with elevated levels of intellectual capacity, see for example last year’s winner, this time we have a recipient about which The New Yorker writes:

‘the Dalai Lama can appear a bit dull. Precepts such as “violence breeds violence” or “the quality of means determine ends” may be ethically sound, but they don’t seem to possess the intellectual complexity that would make them engaging as ideas. Since the Dalai Lama speaks English badly, and frequently collapses into prolonged fits of giggling, he can also give the impression that he is, as Iyer reports a journalist saying, “not the brightest bulb in the room.”’

Christopher Hitchens pointed out that Tenzin Gyatso claims to be a “hereditary king appointed by heaven itself” enforcing a one-man rule in Dharamsala, the Tibetans in exile town in the Indian Himalayas. Such sort of rule is what he wants to reintroduce to the long since developed and almost modern (by neighboring standards: Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan) Chinese province of Xizang, whose inhabitants have understandably no desire for serfdom (slavery).

Templeton of course does not mention so, but it should be obvious: Tenzin Gyatso is a very controversial choice - politically that is, not just because of dim bulbs - and the responsible selection committee was well aware of the important related issues, yet they went ahead, one must assume not in spite of, but because of.

Apart from the late Sir long being dust, I would not be surprised if poor Sir John Templeton spun in his grave about his spoiled son ensuring that Templeton money goes ever more to support right wing politics, which is nicely consistent with the money junior privately hands to groups like "National Organization for Marriage", whose main purpose is to discriminate against homosexuals. One motivation for the choice of the Dull Lamo for the Templeton Prize of 1.7million dollars should be clear to all those not politically naive. Much like heaping Arts prizes on Ai Weiwei in order to stick it to the Chinese, helping old Tenzin Gyatso to stay in the lime light is always good if one hates what the Chinese are doing for science and secularism. There is a reason the Dalai Lama received a Congressional Gold Medal from President Bush.

Anti PRC sentiment was however probably just a side issue. Tenzin Gyatso just fits perfectly into the usual strategy followed by Templeton, as has been well described by a commenter on SB:

“… But not caring where your money comes from, just as not caring where it goes indicates a certain ethical poverty. Templeton has a demonstrable history of awarding treats, prizes, fellowships etc. to whatever prominent scientist/journalist/cleric has taken a very public accommodationist stance in concert with pre-existing celebrity sufficient to promote Templeton's prestige. Handing a billion dollars derived from a 1964 tax loophole to retired science celebrity millionaires and mediocre science journalists as a way of pumping air into "Non-overlapping magisteria" is ... well ... shitty.” Emphasis added

This sums up very well indeed what all such groups are fundamentally about: Their own standing, much like the large majority of "successful" science blogs are mainly about carving out a niche market, getting book deals, trying to link with worthy other blogs and sites that are already established, showing hip “criticism” up to where it may start to offend potential allies, then backing off three steps. If you are one of those who often complain that all kinds of efforts are not actually about the stated aims but all about politics, you know, left-right, brownish-red versus Na(i)vy-blue, think again. It isn’t even about that and humans can easily rationalize changing their colors like a chameleon if opportunity calls.
====================
Two people were struck by trains inside the subway station at 72nd Street and Broadway on Wednesday, Feb. 29, 2012. View Full Caption DNAinfo/Ben Fractenberg

MANHATTAN — A second person was hit by a subway at 72nd Street and Broadway Wednesday, just four hours after a man was struck and killed by a train at the same station, officials said.

The man was hit by an uptown 2 train just before noon. He was rushed to St. Luke's Hospital with serious injuries but was later listed in stable condition.

Police said that no criminality is suspected and that the 33-year-old man was likely intoxicated at the time of the incident. The investigation is ongoing, but it appeared the man had fallen onto the platform and, in the process of getting up, pitched in front of the 2 train, police said.

A witness standing on the platform on Wednesday afternoon said he observed the man screaming to himself and weaving between passengers before the incident.

“He walked straight into a pole right in front of me, head first,” said the 27-year-old Columbia student who declined to give his name.

When the train pulled into the station, the man fell in front of it, the witness said.

“He was screamining for help for about 30 seconds and then silence,” he said.

Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the MTA, said that the station remained open after the incident. Northbound 2 and 3 trains ran on the local track between Times Square and 96th Street until about 1:30 p.m. Southbound 2 and 3 trains ran as normal.

Kevin Duke, 61, was selling umbrellas outside the subway station and saw the man, wearing a business suit and apparently unconscious, taken out on a stretcher soon after the accident.

"I felt bad. You never want to see anyone hurt," said Duke, who lives in Midtown.

Duke said that he was "shocked" that two people had been hit by trains inside the 72nd Street subway station within four hours of each other.

The earlier incident happened around 8 a.m. Wednesday when a 62-year-old man was hit by a northbound No. 2 train in what cops said was an apparent suicide.

Andrew Albert, an Upper West Side Community Board 7 member and MTA board member, said the 72nd Street station is the No. 1/2/3 line's most congested stop during morning rush hour, but the crowds form on the downtown side, not the uptown side where the two people were struck.

The station was built in 1904 as part of New York's first-ever subway line, and its narrow platforms haven't been widened since, Albert said. The station was renovated several years ago when its platforms were lengthened, but no width was added.

With reporting by Leslie Albrecht.
====================
AssuredVacancy Profile Blog Joined September 2008 United States 1143 Posts Last Edited: 2010-02-09 15:41:32 #1 Feedback/suggestions strongly encouraged(esp. a good formula for a macro rating)



There was a bug with buildorder generation, please download the new version as the bug is fairly serious.



New Features(Latest update: customizable layout/more worker stats/display):

+ Show Spoiler +

A new worker stat is added: Total number of idle worker seconds as well as the total amount of minerals that could've been harvested by the idle workers.







The idle worker seconds work like this: if there are 4 idling workers idling for 1 second each, that's 4 worker seconds, it's the same if there's one worker idling for 4 seconds.

The number of minerals "missed" from idling is calculated by this:

if the worker is idling for that frame(1/24th of a second), the number of minerals missed is equaled to the instantaneous mining rate per frame of that player's workers divided by the number of workers.

E.g. If the player is on one base with 50 workers mining 8 patches, an idling worker will not increase the "amount of minerals missed" as much if the player is on one base with 4 workers mining 8 patches, simply because one added worker in the oversaturated mineral field is not going to be that big of a deal where as one added worker in an undersaturated mineral field makes a bigger impact.

This is a fairly accurate measurement of the amount of minerals missed from idling workers. This will help you refine your builds as you can see how much more minerals you could've gotten if you had better mechanics.







This was fairly late into the game, but you can see that the amount of minerals missed by both players is a pretty big amount. You can also see that the ratio of minerals:minutes is not the same. This is because the mining rates of each player is different when their workers are idling.



Units making in production facilities, research/upgrades, unfinished buildings are all labeled as you can't tell what they are unless you click on them. This just saves a bit of time:







The option to turn them off is in the settings file under the field "showHiddenNames".



The bug of not reading options correctly is also fixed.



The layout is now customizeable. As well as 5 new commands:



/hide <1 or 2>

Hide the info from player 1 or 2.











/unhide <1 or 2>

unhide the player info.





/load <layout scheme filename>

Loads a file containing a set of layout options. I included 2 basic files (basicinfo.ini, buildorder.ini)







/load basicinfo









/load buildorder









In the beginning of the replay the plugin will automatically load replaypp.ini. So just edit that file to your liking. The default file scheme is:

+ Show Spoiler +



showrally: 1

showworkerstats: 1

showmacrostats: 1

showorder: 1

showbuildorder: 1

showhp: 1

supplycount: 50

***************macrosettings:

Xcoordinate: 10

Ycoordinate: 10

productionFacCount: 1

queuedCount: 1

averageQueuedCount: 1

currentlyBuildingCount: 1

idleBuildingOrLarvaCount: 1

macroRating: 1

********************Workersettings:

xcoordinate: 300

ycoordinate: 10

workerCount: 1

miningMineralCount: 1

miningGasCount: 1

idleWorkerCount: 1

******************buildOrderSettings:

xcoordinate: 305

ycoordinate: 130

notify: 1







You can decide which info is displayed from changing to 1 or 0.

Notify is the option to turn off the notification everytime the buildorder list increases.









/default

loads replaypp.ini(the default file)









/notify

Toggles the notification of build orders.







Old:

The timing of RESEARCH/UPGRADES is now tracked throughout the whole game.



Throughout the game(even after the supply count limit), the timing of important tech structures, and the first instance of units is tracked.

E.g. If you want to practise a build that focuses on a midgame push with guardians, the timing/supply count of the FIRST guardian will be recorded regardless of what your supply is.



Throughout the whole game, the timing of EXPANSIONS will be recorded as well. This is not equivalent to a cc/hatch/nexus, as ONLY cc/hatch/nexus that serve as a mining base is recorded. E.g. you build a second hatch next to your first hatch, it's not counted as an expansion. A new worker stat is added: Total number of idle worker seconds as well as the total amount of minerals that could've been harvested by the idle workers.The idle worker seconds work like this: if there are 4 idling workers idling for 1 second each, that's 4 worker seconds, it's the same if there's one worker idling for 4 seconds.The number of minerals "missed" from idling is calculated by this:if the worker is idling for that frame(1/24th of a second), the number of minerals missed is equaled to the instantaneous mining rate per frame of that player's workers divided by the number of workers.E.g. If the player is on one base with 50 workers mining 8 patches, an idling worker will not increase the "amount of minerals missed" as much if the player is on one base with 4 workers mining 8 patches, simply because one added worker in the oversaturated mineral field is not going to be that big of a deal where as one added worker in an undersaturated mineral field makes a bigger impact.This is a fairly accurate measurement of the amount of minerals missed from idling workers. This will help you refine your builds as you can see how much more minerals you could've gotten if you had better mechanics.This was fairly late into the game, but you can see that the amount of minerals missed by both players is a pretty big amount. You can also see that the ratio of minerals:minutes is not the same. This is because the mining rates of each player is different when their workers are idling.Units making in production facilities, research/upgrades, unfinished buildings are all labeled as you can't tell what they are unless you click on them. This just saves a bit of time:The option to turn them off is in the settings file under the field "showHiddenNames".The bug of not reading options correctly is also fixed.The layout is now customizeable. As well as 5 new commands:Hide the info from player 1 or 2.unhide the player info.Loads a file containing a set of layout options. I included 2 basic files (basicinfo.ini, buildorder.ini)In the beginning of the replay the plugin will automatically load replaypp.ini. So just edit that file to your liking. The default file scheme is:You can decide which info is displayed from changing to 1 or 0.Notify is the option to turn off the notification everytime the buildorder list increases.loads replaypp.ini(the default file)Toggles the notification of build orders.Old:The timing of RESEARCH/UPGRADES is now tracked throughout the whole game.Throughout the game(even after the supply count limit), the timing of important tech structures, and the first instance of units is tracked.E.g. If you want to practise a build that focuses on a midgame push with guardians, the timing/supply count of the FIRST guardian will be recorded regardless of what your supply is.Throughout the whole game, the timing of EXPANSIONS will be recorded as well. This is not equivalent to a cc/hatch/nexus, as ONLY cc/hatch/nexus that serve as a mining base is recorded. E.g. you build a second hatch next to your first hatch, it's not counted as an expansion.





Poll: Should the info display in a window outside of BW?

(

(

(

(





Bug fixes:

Fixed the bug where you can't follow lurkers. You can follow lurkers all you want.

Fixed the bug where the game crashes if you type /highlight or /find or /follow with no parameters.

Fixed the bug where it can't recognize when lair/hive tech is.



Does this make you squeal in joy? If it does, you may donate to help the hungry college kid writing code here!









To update you just need to change the replaypp.dll, and replaypp.ini with the new one. No need to replace everything.



Instead of using bwapi to make an AI that does things for you, I made something that makes watching a replay/obsing a game on iccup, or even practising. This is replay++: it makes watching a replay as exciting as watching the TSL.





Features



Detailed Macro stats:



In addition to knowing only the resources/supply of each player, you now know many more useful stats that can help you analyse your own replays to become a better player.





This is taken from the infernal vs mondragon replay found in the replays section.



From the top to bottom:

First row: shows minerals, increase in minerals per minute, gas, increase in gas per minute, and supply.

Second row: # of production facilities built(in white), and currently building(in grey). If you're a zerg this shows the number of hatcheries.

Third row: # of units queued and how much minerals/gas is wasted in queueing. Zergs don't have this because they laugh at nubs queueing.

Fourth row: Average number of units queueing at any given time, and the corresponding resources. (Infernal's being a champ and has a super low queueing average)

Fifth row: Number of units building. Self explanatory. Zergs have the number of units morphing.

Sixth row: Number of production facilities not building stuff. This includes everything so it's normal to have 3-4 from robo bays, scouting raxes, etc. Zerg's equivalent to this is the number of idle larva at the time, as well as average.

Seventh row: Overall macro rating is something random formula that incorporates everything that I made up. It is by no means perfectly accurate or even useful. I just did it for kicks. But it's working here as you can see how mondi's rating's quite low as he is supply blocked, with 10 idle larvae.





Detailed worker stats:







This is pretty self explanatory. The number of patches currently being mined means the number of patches that are physically being mined, aka if a worker is returning cargo, the number of patches being mined is 0.





Real time build order generation:







This list is generated as the game is played. You can change up to how many supply the build order is being tracked. The default is 50, you can change it in the .ini file. A timestamp is provided here so you can compare your own times for each build order execution as you practise.

It also outputs the build order to a text file with the players names in the bwapi-data folder. Do not open the text file while the game is going or it will crash. It's safer for you to rename the text file to a unique name because the name is based on the 2 players. It's possible that it will be overridden by another game with the same players.



There was a bug with buildorder generation, please download the new version as the bug is fairly serious.Poll: Vote ): Definitely yes. Vote ): Definitely no. Vote ): Depends.. (state your condition) Vote ): Fix your bugs before you do this!Bug fixes:Fixed the bug where you can't follow lurkers. You can follow lurkers all you want.Fixed the bug where the game crashes if you type /highlight or /find or /follow with no parameters.Fixed the bug where it can't recognize when lair/hive tech is.To update you just need to change the replaypp.dll, and replaypp.ini with the new one. No need to replace everything.Instead of using bwapi to make an AI that does things for you, I made something that makes watching a replay/obsing a game on iccup, or even practising. This is replay++: it makes watching a replay as exciting as watching the TSL.Detailed Macro stats:In addition to knowing only the resources/supply of each player, you now know many more useful stats that can help you analyse your own replays to become a better player.This is taken from the infernal vs mondragon replay found in the replays section.From the top to bottom:First row: shows minerals, increase in minerals per minute, gas, increase in gas per minute, and supply.Second row: # of production facilities built(in white), and currently building(in grey). If you're a zerg this shows the number of hatcheries.Third row: # of units queued and how much minerals/gas is wasted in queueing. Zergs don't have this because they laugh at nubs queueing.Fourth row: Average number of units queueing at any given time, and the corresponding resources. (Infernal's being a champ and has a super low queueing average)Fifth row: Number of units building. Self explanatory. Zergs have the number of units morphing.Sixth row: Number of production facilities not building stuff. This includes everything so it's normal to have 3-4 from robo bays, scouting raxes, etc. Zerg's equivalent to this is the number of idle larva at the time, as well as average.Seventh row: Overall macro rating is something random formula that incorporates everything that I made up. It is by no means perfectly accurate or even useful. I just did it for kicks. But it's working here as you can see how mondi's rating's quite low as he is supply blocked, with 10 idle larvae.Detailed worker stats:This is pretty self explanatory. The number of patches currently being mined means the number of patches that are physically being mined, aka if a worker is returning cargo, the number of patches being mined is 0.Real time build order generation:This list is generated as the game is played. You can change up to how many supply the build order is being tracked. The default is 50, you can change it in the .ini file. A timestamp is provided here so you can compare your own times for each build order execution as you practise.It also outputs the build order to a text file with the players names in the bwapi-data folder. Do not open the text file while the game is going or it will crash. It's safer for you to rename the text file to a unique name because the name is based on the 2 players. It's possible that it will be overridden by another game with the same players. Chat commands



/count <unit name>

Entering this will make the AI count all the units with the specified name. The entered name has to be contained in the actual name of the unit.







/follow <unit name>

This will make your screen constantly follow the biggest group of the unit entered. You lose control of the screen until you type /unfollow. This is pretty entertaining for watching muta harass.

E.g

Entering /follow muta when there's a group of 7 mutas will make your screen constantly follow that group until a bigger group of mutas appear somewhere else or /unfollow



/unfollow

explained above.







/find <unit name>

Moves your screen to the the biggest group of the specified unit in the game currently.











/highlight <unit name>

Covers all the units with the specified name with a bright retina burning cyan. The command /hon must be typed before this can be used.













/unhighlight

Turns off highlighting.









/hon

Turns on highlighting









/hoff

Turns off highlighting, but the next time /hon is called, the previously highlighted unit will still be highlighted, where as /unhighlight doesn't remember the previously highlighted unit









/clear

Turns off everything.







/all

Turns on everything.







/macro or /ma

Toggles macro info.







/rally

Shows the rally point of all the buildings. Buildings without a rally point set yet is shown to have a rallypoint to the top left corner(usually. Unless they want to hide carriers there.)











/workers

Toggles worker info.







/order

Shows the exact orders of each unit and the exact coordinate the game interpretes that command. This means it's not necessarily what the player clicked, but rather what the game interpreted that click as.





Different colors mean different orders:

Black = Hold position. The command that Bisu forgets to do in important games.

Grey = Patrol. The micro button.

White = Nothing. It's doing it on its on free will

Green = Move.

Red = 1a2a3a.







/bo

Toggles build order info.







/hp

Toggles HP bars.



/hide <1 or 2>

Hide the info from player 1 or 2.











/unhide <1 or 2>

unhide the player info.





/load <layout scheme filename>

Loads a file containing a set of layout options. I included 2 basic files (basicinfo.ini, buildorder.ini)







/load basicinfo









/load buildorder









In the beginning of the replay the plugin will automatically load replaypp.ini. So just edit that file to your liking. The default file scheme is:

+ Show Spoiler +



showrally: 1

showworkerstats: 1

showmacrostats: 1

showorder: 1

showbuildorder: 1

showhp: 1

supplycount: 50

***************macrosettings:

Xcoordinate: 10

Ycoordinate: 10

productionFacCount: 1

queuedCount: 1

averageQueuedCount: 1

currentlyBuildingCount: 1

idleBuildingOrLarvaCount: 1

macroRating: 1

********************Workersettings:

xcoordinate: 300

ycoordinate: 10

workerCount: 1

miningMineralCount: 1

miningGasCount: 1

idleWorkerCount: 1

******************buildOrderSettings:

xcoordinate: 305

ycoordinate: 130

notify: 1







You can decide which info is displayed from changing to 1 or 0.

Notify is the option to turn off the notification everytime the buildorder list increases.









/default

loads replaypp.ini(the default file)









/notify

Toggles the notification of build orders.





Misc Features:





Mouse Guided Unit Counting:



This makes counting how many mutas are in a stack. All you have to do is draw a selection box, and all the units in the selection box is counted and displayed.







Showing hp bars



Size appropriate HP bars are shown above units.





Changing game speed:



You can only change the game speed with the +/- on the numpad.





How the fuck can I use this sexy shit?

Download this file:

http://replaypp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/replayPP.zip



Upon extraction, you will see 3 folders. Copy the folder inside Starcraft into your starcraft folder. Copy the files inside WINDOWS into your WINDOWS folder. Copy the files inside Chaoslauncher into your Chaoslauncher folder.



Inside the bwapi-data folder(Starcraft/bwapi-data) there is a file called replaypp.ini. Open it. Edit it to your liking. 0 is no, 1 is yes.



Start chaoslauncher tick BWAPI injector, and you might want to untick apm alert because the text overlaps with the text generated by my plugin.



Happy replay watching!



If you're crashing:

On February 06 2010 14:27 R1CH wrote:

Show nested quote +

On February 06 2010 13:59 Garnet wrote:

I followed your instruction precisely and this happened:

I followed your instruction precisely and this happened:

Install Visual C++ runtimes, in the order linked.



http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=32BC1BEE-A3F9-4C13-9C99-220B62A191EE&displaylang=en

http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=200B2FD9-AE1A-4A14-984D-389C36F85647&displaylang=en

http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=9b2da534-3e03-4391-8a4d-074b9f2bc1bf&displaylang=en

http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=A5C84275-3B97-4AB7-A40D-3802B2AF5FC2&displaylang=en Install Visual C++ runtimes, in the order linked.



Thanks R1CH!



EDIT: A video of it working is up. BUT TRY IT YOURSELF.

Entering this will make the AI count all the units with the specified name. The entered name has to be contained in the actual name of the unit.This will make your screen constantly follow the biggest group of the unit entered. You lose control of the screen until you type /unfollow. This is pretty entertaining for watching muta harass.E.gEntering /follow muta when there's a group of 7 mutas will make your screen constantly follow that group until a bigger group of mutas appear somewhere else or /unfollowexplained above.Moves your screen to the the biggest group of the specified unit in the game currently.Covers all the units with the specified name with a bright retina burning cyan. The command /hon must be typed before this can be used.Turns off highlighting.Turns on highlightingTurns off highlighting, but the next time /hon is called, the previously highlighted unit will still be highlighted, where as /unhighlight doesn't remember the previously highlighted unitTurns off everything.Turns on everything.Toggles macro info.Shows the rally point of all the buildings. Buildings without a rally point set yet is shown to have a rallypoint to the top left corner(usually. Unless they want to hide carriers there.)Toggles worker info.Shows the exact orders of each unit and the exact coordinate the game interpretes that command. This means it's not necessarily what the player clicked, but rather what the game interpreted that click as.Different colors mean different orders:Black = Hold position. The command that Bisu forgets to do in important games.Grey = Patrol. The micro button.White = Nothing. It's doing it on its on free willGreen = Move.Red = 1a2a3a.Toggles build order info.Toggles HP bars.Hide the info from player 1 or 2.unhide the player info.Loads a file containing a set of layout options. I included 2 basic files (basicinfo.ini, buildorder.ini)In the beginning of the replay the plugin will automatically load replaypp.ini. So just edit that file to your liking. The default file scheme is:You can decide which info is displayed from changing to 1 or 0.Notify is the option to turn off the notification everytime the buildorder list increases.loads replaypp.ini(the default file)Toggles the notification of build orders.Mouse Guided Unit Counting:This makes counting how many mutas are in a stack. All you have to do is draw a selection box, and all the units in the selection box is counted and displayed.Showing hp barsSize appropriate HP bars are shown above units.Changing game speed:You can only change the game speed with the +/- on the numpad.Upon extraction, you will see 3 folders. Copy the folder inside Starcraft into your starcraft folder. Copy the files inside WINDOWS into your WINDOWS folder. Copy the files inside Chaoslauncher into your Chaoslauncher folder.Inside the bwapi-data folder(Starcraft/bwapi-data) there is a file called replaypp.ini. Open it. Edit it to your liking. 0 is no, 1 is yes.Start chaoslauncher tick BWAPI injector, and you might want to untick apm alert because the text overlaps with the text generated by my plugin.If you're crashing:Thanks R1CH!EDIT: A video of it working is up. BUT TRY IT YOURSELF. We spend our youth attaining wealth, and our wealth attaining youth.
====================
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's Richard Taylor was one of the first to out a prototype of "Project Morpheus"

Sony has unveiled a prototype for a virtual reality headset for its PlayStation 4 console at a developers conference in San Francisco.

Shuhei Yoshida, president of Sony's Worldwide Studios, said Sony had been working on the technology - called Project Morpheus - for three years.

"We believe VR will shape the future of games," said Mr Yoshida in a blog post.

The prototype will be made available to developers, but no commercial release date was given.

Project Morpheus is a head-mounted display with 1080p resolution and a 90 degree field of view.

It has sensors built into the unit that can track head orientation and movement, so that when a user's head moves, the image of the virtual reality world moves with it.

Sony's move into virtual reality follows a product released by crowd-sourced group Oculus Rift.

It unveiled its prototype headset Crystal Cove at this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
====================
I will take my oath of office today and have the honor of representing Silicon Valley in the U.S. House of Representatives. My political campaign succeeded because of the help of hundreds of students. Their ambition and drive will allow them to flourish, but I am concerned about their well-being.

These students were volunteering because of a genuine passion for giving back to the community. But a few also told me that the campaign work was a release, or as one student put it “a respite from our reality.” And while these young adults may not have used terms like anxiety and depression, I gradually got the sense that their “reality” was sometimes darker than their smiles would suggest.

In the most recent California Healthy Kids Survey, 1 in 3 high school juniors reported feeling chronically sad. An astonishing 1 in 5 freshmen and juniors reported contemplating suicide. The causes of student distress vary, but 1 in 3 teens told the American Psychological Association that stress was a primary driver, and the single biggest cause teens named was school.

A large study commissioned by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Kaiser Permanente confirms that children who experience more serious and lasting stress in their youth are more likely to suffer not only anxiety and depression, but also lung, liver and heart disease as adults. While that research examined severe traumas such as abuse or neglect, psychologists and pediatricians increasingly suspect that chronic, lower-intensity stress, like that caused by constant performance pressure, could cause similar biological strain.

It has become clear that we need to do something. Vicki Abeles and Tarun Galagali have helped me put together a five-point plan:

Collect data annually on student wellness: We need to know precisely what we’re dealing with at each school. Stuart Slavin, a St. Louis University pediatrics professor, pioneered such a survey at Fremont’s Irvington High School, asking students research-backed questions on sleep, stress, anxiety and depression. The results helped guide Irvington administrators in crafting wellness programs. Data makes inaction a costly political decision for officials responsible to constituents.

Create wellness centers: Every school should have a wellness center on site, providing counseling and other services that will help equip students with tools to cultivate good mental health, such as mindfulness. Southern California’s Burbank High School is a guiding example.

Shift school start times to 8:30 a.m.: Sleep matters, especially for children and teens. Yet more than two-thirds of our country’s students get fewer hours than they need. Sleep deprivation is linked with a weaker immune system and higher levels of depression and suicide (not to mention poorer academic performance). Pushing school start times from 7:30 to 8:30 a.m., as the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends, might be logistically challenging but sensible.

Remake expectations about homework: Homework seems like a given — a central and unquestioned part of a rigorous education. But in truth it is a reflex, borne out of tradition rather than research. Studies suggest that, if homework helps at all, it does so only when assigned in moderation. Today’s runaway homework demands are doing more harm than good. Schools should cap the amount of time students can be required to work after the last bell, granting them the chance for rest and exercise, and returning to families the evening hours that are rightfully theirs.

Defuse the college admissions arms race: There’s little that drives students to experience more stress than the ever-escalating contest to cram their college applications full of more advanced classes and activities than the next applicant. Yet it’s a contest that has little to do with real individual potential or learning. Schools at all levels have a responsibility to intervene. We call on public colleges and universities to cap the number of Advanced Placement classes and activities they will consider on applications.

With the same fervor that we demand our candidates value Medicare and Social Security, we need to ask our public officials to tackle the mental health epidemic afflicting our nation’s children. It is an urgent task.

Ro Khanna is the U.S. representative-elect of California’s 17th Congressional District. He wrote this commentary with Vicki Abeles, the producer/director of the film “Race to Nowhere” and author of “Beyond Measure: Rescuing an Overscheuled, Overtested, Underestimated Generation” (Simon & Schuster, 2015), and Tarun Galagali, an alumnus of Monta Vista High School in Cupertino.
====================
An old piece of ATM malware is back, and reportedly more dangerous and harder to detect than ever. According to security researchers from Kaspersky Labs, an updated piece of malware dubbed Skimer has infected numerous Windows-based ATMs across all corners of the globe.

DON’T MISS: Apple supplier mistakenly leaks details of next year’s major iPhone redesign

When installed, the updated version of Skimer checks to see if the file system is FAT32 or NFTS. If it’s the former, it “drops the file netmgr.dll in the folder C:\Windows\System32” and if it’s the latter, “the same file will be placed in the NTFS data stream corresponding to the XFS service´s executable file.” The end result is that the malware is harder for security officials to detect and make sense of.

The Stack adds:

Unlike other skimming malware programs, like Tyupkin, which becomes active in a specific time frame and is awakened by a ‘magic code’, Skimer may lie dormant for months until it is activated with the physical use of a ‘magic card.’ The magic card gives access control to the malware, which then offers a list of options that are accessed by inputting a choice on the pin pad.

Once an ATM is compromised and the Skimer malware resuscitated from its dormant state, cyber criminals can gather pertinent financial data from inserted cards and can even direct the machine to dispense money. And in an additional step to evade detection, the malware can even be instructed to self destruct.

A view of the Skimer malware in action, courtesy of Kaspersky, can be viewed below.
====================
Police: Drunk driving suspect admitted drinking before fatal crash Copyright by KRQE - All rights reserved Video

ALBUQUERQUE (KRQE) - Three people are dead in what police are calling a drunk driving crash.

The Albuquerque Police Department says Jacob Jaramillo, 23, was driving on I-25 Frontage Road at 12:30 a.m., approaching the I-40 Frontage Road, when he ran a red light and struck another vehicle with three people in it.

All three of those people were killed. They have been identified as Roberto Mendez, 27, Sergio Mendez-Aguirre, 23, and Grace Sinfield, 20.

Friends say Roberto Mendez and Grace Sinfield both worked at the High Finance Restaurant at the top of the Sandia Peak Tramway.

Police say Jaramillo was driving while "extremely intoxicated at the time of the crash which is a contributing factor to the crash." He will be booked on three counts of vehicular homicide, aggravated DWI, and red light violation.

According to a criminal complaint, Jaramillo admitted at the scene to drinking alcohol before the crash. Later at the hospital he told officers he had one beer. They say he failed sobriety tests and his blood alcohol level was tested. That number has not been released.

Jaramillo was treated for non-life threatening injuries. Sunday evening he was transported from the hospital to APD's Main. He appeared to be in a lot of pain and was walking with a limp. He did not answer reporters' questions about the crash.

Jaramillo has been in the news before. He was arrested in October 2014 after an assault on a Bernalillo County Sheriff's Deputy at Imbibe Cigar Lounge. Jaramillo was accused of punching the deputy in his face and pushing him into a dumpster. Police say that deputy was targeted because he helped police track down one of Jaramillo's friends, wanted for violating probation stemming from a drunk driving crash from 2010. In that case Jaramillo was charged with bribery or intimidation of a witness and conspiracy.

The investigation into Sunday morning's crash is ongoing.
====================
Image copyright Getty Images

Sunday was a busy day for elections around the world. Results from Argentina, Guatemala and Poland were announced within hours, but election officials say results from Tanzania, Ivory Coast and the Congo referendum will take several days.

Everyone hates a slow election process.

It's not just the voters and the candidates, desperate to know the results.

It's also the election staff, who probably got up before dawn to prepare the polling station, worked all day running the voting, stayed up most of the night counting the ballots and then had to take the results to a central point and wait for hours, sometimes days, to see their results safely received and entered into the system.

In the Democratic Republic of Congo capital Kinshasa in 2011, I remember presiding officers at the tally centre, fast asleep on top of their sacks of ballot papers; in Nigeria the same year, I watched as the Edo state election commissioner, red-eyed and grey with fatigue, waited for the last results - carried by canoe and motor boat - to finally arrive from the creeks of the Niger Delta.

Presidentially slow

The problem is not a lack of technology.

The UK still uses the most primitive of voting systems - paper ballots, physically carried to the counting centre and counted by hand.

But the UK, like Poland, which voted at the weekend, and India, the biggest democracy of all, has a big advantage.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption It takes longer to count votes for a president than for a parliament

It's a parliamentary system, so the election in each constituency is complete in itself and can be declared immediately; there is no need to wait for results from the whole country to know who the next president will be.

Apart from Ethiopia, most African countries have presidential systems, and these are inevitably slower.

Fears of fraud

The other advantage the UK has is one of trust.

Where there has been very little past fraud, there is no need for time-consuming safeguards.

Polling officials could simply phone their result in to the national election commission, and no-one would doubt them. But unhappily that is not the case in most of Africa.

The Edo State results had to be brought physically to Benin City so that the commissioner could see that the results sheets had not been altered and all the party agents had signed that they were correct.

And the commissioner then had to get on a plane and personally fly to the capital, Abuja, carrying the State results sheets (again, signed by all parties) to the national election headquarters.

No wonder the process takes time.

And physically transporting results is not foolproof.

Sometimes the results which arrive are not the same as those which left.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption People fear that votes can be manipulated

In the DR Congo, the European Union noted that the results its observers had seen in Katanga province were not the same as those later declared in Kinshasa.

So that's why conscientious officials slept on top of their ballot papers.

Attempts to speed up the process with modern technology have not been a great success.

Malawi bought a sophisticated electronic transmission system for its elections last year, but it was so sophisticated that most districts could not get it to work.

The fax system used as a back-up collapsed under the strain, and in the end, after days of delay, the results were hand-carried to the national headquarters.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption India's electronic voting machines make counting relatively fast

Where machines are used, the best systems have been the simplest.

India uses small voting machines, powered by batteries. They are not connected to phone lines or the internet.

They simply keep a record of the votes cast, locked inside, and are safely stored until the time comes to count.

Indian elections are so huge that voting days in different areas are spread over several weeks, but the count itself goes quickly.

In Malawi rumours of manipulation were rife, and this is the problem when results are delayed.

Phoning it in

Mobile phones have been a game-changer.

Political parties and and local observer groups can now run their own parallel counts.

Because they trust their agents, local results are simply phoned in to the national headquarters.

Typically these parties and civil society organisations know the election result long before it is officially declared.

This can be an effective check on fraud, but where people think they already know the result, yet there is no declaration, they get suspicious.

Even where there is a ban on declaring these unofficial results, eventually they begin to leak out.

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Transporting votes, as in Tanzania, because people fear fraud, slows the count down

Of course, sometimes the results are being massaged, but even where they aren't, trust is undermined.

Yes, logistics in Africa are challenging and communications are unreliable, but above all it is the need for multiple layers of safeguards which makes these election processes cumbersome.

But until everyone is prepared to trust a simpler system, African voters will just have to keep waiting, and waiting, for their results.

More on elections across Africa

October is Africa's election month

Tanzania's nail-biting election

Is Ivory Coast ready for presidential elections?

The speedy UK elections through Ghanaian eyes

Elizabeth Blunt has reported on African elections since 1979, and has also served as an election observer for the Commonwealth and the European Union.
====================
Not content with Donald Trump having all the attention for his latest string of bigoted statements, Ben Carson told CNN today that he too saw footage of Muslim residents of New Jersey celebrating the 9/11 attacks:

Trump did get back up from his primary opponent Ben Carson, who told reporters gathered in Nevada that he did see celebrations of American Muslims in New Jersey after 9/11. “I saw the film of it, yes,” he said. Asked what kind of film, he said: “The news reels.” “There are going to be people who respond inappropriately to events like that. I think that was an inappropriate response I don’t know if on the basis on that you can say all Muslims are bad people,” Carson said.

ABC News also captured his remarks:

WATCH: @RealBenCarson tells ABC he saw news footage of Muslims in New Jersey cheering as towers fell on 9/11: https://t.co/DJCSJdZxXS — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) November 23, 2015

Trump’s campaign has been unable to substantiate the candidate’s claim that he saw “thousands and thousands” of Arab Americans celebrating 9/11 in Jersey City, probably because the video does not exist since the event he described didn’t happen.

Like Trump, Carson has expressed a number of anti-Muslim views, claiming that no Muslim should ever be elected president unless they renounce their faith and calling on the government to monitor mosques and other “anti-American” houses of worship.

UPDATE: His campaign now says he made a mistake and apologizes:
====================
Patti Davis, the daughter of President (and conservative icon) Ronald Reagan, denounced Donald Trump’s “fondness for verbal violence” in response to his comments about “Second Amendment people” and Hillary Clinton.

In her Facebook rebuke, Davis recounted how her father had survived John Hinckley, Jr.’s assassination attempt, which Hinckley had said was inspired by a movie. She then told Trump his “glib and horrifying comment” was heard by many — including those who could be incited to violence if given the idea.

The Brief Newsletter Sign up to receive the top stories you need to know right now. View Sample Sign Up Now

“Yes, Mr. Trump, words matter,” Davis said. “But then you know that, which makes this all even more horrifying.”

Read the rest of Davis’ post below.

To Donald Trump: I am the daughter of a man who was shot by someone who got his inspiration from a movie, someone who… Posted by Patti Davis on Wednesday, August 10, 2016

Write to Julia Zorthian at julia.zorthian@time.com.
====================
. @AlanDersh : This is conduct that would be covered by the 1st Amendment. I can't believe the NYT had an op-ed in which treason was mentioned pic.twitter.com/ND9RT00omj

Wednesday on Fox Business Network’s “Cavuto: Coast to Coast,” Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz dismissed accusations of treason aimed at Donald Trump, Jr., as a New York Times op-ed suggested, for his meeting with a Russian lawyer offering opposition research on his father’s Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election.

Dershowitz pointed to The New York Times publishing of the Pentagon Papers in 1971, noting that it was protected by the First Amendment.

“[T]here’s really no difference under the First Amendment between a campaigner using information he obtained illegally, from somebody who obtained it illegally, and a newspaper doing it,” he said. “So I think this is conduct that would be covered by the First Amendment. It’s also not prohibited by law. There’s been so much overwrought claim. There are people who are talking about treason. I can’t believe The New York Times had an op-ed yesterday in which treason was mentioned without even looking at the definition.”

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor
====================
Whether or not Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich wins the Democratic nomination - and, uhm...he won't - there's one thing that nobody can deny: the man is straight PIMP. While John Kerry and George W. Bush were fighting over who was going to end up stuck with the responsibility of running the country, the Kooch was looking for love, and he eventually found it in the form of Brit Elizabeth Harper. Statuesque, ginger-haired, whip-smart, and hotter than a marshmallow in a campfire, Elizabeth can't help but be the most interesting thing in the room whenever she finds herself in proximity to the Democratic field. This noted peacenik's face may not have launched a thousand ships of war, but even Joe Biden cops to wanting to see her "topless towers of Ilium."

A lengthy piece from the Washington Post's Libby Copeland gives readers the essential blow-by-blow of their relationship. And frankly, it's so filled with wacky cosmic coincidences that it makes you wonder if maybe Kucinich isn't totally attuned to the mysteries of the known universe after all. As Copeland relates:

The story of Dennis and Elizabeth Kucinich involves: Indian nuns, a bust of Gandhi, a portrait of "conscious light," a mystical opal ring, congressional legislation, an Indian guru and the meeting of souls. Also: Dennis' good friend for decades, Shirley MacLaine, the actress and New Age author, who played host to the couple's second date.

There's lots of other details that make us really goopy with happiness for Kucinich. Like the part where Representatives Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH) and Maxine Waters (D-CA) are portrayed as his special gal-pals, to whom he first gushed of his love for Liz. And the fact that the only hatred Kucinich harbors in his peace-loving heart is for Tim Russert - which makes so much sense! And the weird handmade banner from his 2004 presidential bid that clairvoyantly predicted Elizabeth's existence. But this was our favorite part:

Their days are filled with these sorts of moments, as when they go out for Chinese food and the fortune in Dennis's cookie tells him he has "integrity and consistency." ("Isn't that amazing?" Elizabeth says.)
====================
A couple days ago I mentioned that I had discovered a hidden puzzle in the cards from the Seed III box and today Arcane Tinmen has announced that it is part of a Treasure Hunt with prizes!

It’s pretty simple:

Crack the code (check the Spoils Facebook page for a rune translator) Assemble the results of your decoding Grab the puzzle pieces from the pages Finally, take the puzzle pieces and assemble the complete picture.

Along the way you will learn so much about the lore of the world of Spoils and each of the Trades – that’s something that the Spoils community has been wondering about for years.

Have fun!

Taken from the Spoils Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-Spoils/265143740228156

=======================================================================

Secret Page Treasure Hunt – this is the first piece to a big puzzle!

Scattered around our website www.thespoils.com you will find 77 puzzle pieces, that will be a treat for any amateur archeologist.

When pieced together correctly they will tell the origin story of the world of The Spoils. But of course as with much archeology as many questions arises as are answered.
====================
Boston Mayor Marty Walsh will lay out his agenda for his third year in office Tuesday night during his annual State of the City address.

He said his top priorities include improving community-police relations, narrowing wealth inequality and creating more affordable housing in Boston. He said he hopes to make his third year in office about "action."

"The first year was, in some ways, trying to get acclimated to the job and figure it out," Walsh said. "The second year, we launched a lot of initiatives and ideas, and this is the third year: year of action."

A new report, released last week from the Brookings Institution, found Boston has the greatest income inequality of any major American city.

Walsh also plans to discuss education during his speech.

Education advocates are calling for greater funding for city schools. Last week, Boston Public Schools Superintendent Tommy Chang said the district's budget could fall short as much as $50 million next year.

Editor's Note: We'll carry Walsh's speech live on the air at 7 p.m. on Tuesday.
====================
Convicted Palestinian terrorist Rasmea Yousef Odeh, an organizer of a Day Without a Woman, has agreed to leave the country in exchange for no jail time for failing to disclose the conviction on her U.S. visa application.

Odeh, a resident of Chicago who has lived in the U.S. for about 20 years, plans to plead guilty to unlawful procurement of naturalization in a deal that will allow her to leave the United States rather than face the possibility of an 18-month prison sentence, according to Justice for Rasmea.

She had been scheduled to undergo another trial after a U.S. appeals court vacated her 2014 conviction, saying an expert witness should have been allowed to testify that she suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder from allegedly being tortured in prison when she gave the false answers.

The 69-year-old Palestinian activist was convicted in the 1969 supermarket bombing in Israel that killed two Hebrew University students.

She served 10 years before being released in a prisoner exchange.

Her supporters said it would be “impossible for Rasmea to expect a fair trial in U.S. courts.”

“The prosecution team is now under the regime of racist Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and a new superseding indictment re-frames this as a case about ‘terrorism’ rather than immigration,” said a Thursday statement on the websites Justice for Rasmea and the U.S. Palestinian Community Network.

“There is the great likelihood that a jury would be prejudiced by hearing the zionist Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Tukel call Rasmea a ‘terrorist’ and her supporters ‘mobs and hordes,’ as he has done many times before,” said the post.

Odeh, a feminist and Palestinian activist, was among those who organized the worldwide general strike Day Without a Woman. She is slated to speak next weekend at the Jewish Voice for Peace conference in Chicago.

Her critics cheered the move. The conservative website Twitchy ran the headline “Day without a terrorist?”

Cornell Law School professor William Jacobson, an Odeh critic, said her decision was “no surprise.”

“She was convicted of immigration fraud in the first trial, and would have been convicted in the re-trial,” Mr. Jacobson said in an email. “Her new defense that PTSD caused her to falsely answer simple questions on her naturalization papers about past convictions and imprisonment was laughable. Rasmea and her supporters invented an alternate universe based on hatred of Israel, but alternate universes tend not to do very well in court when faced with real world evidence.”

Odeh is scheduled to appear in court April 25 in Detroit, and after that, “Rasmea will continue her incredible organizing work wherever she is, and so will we,” said Justice for Rasmea.

“Rasmea supporters are portraying this as a victory, but that is just spin,” Mr. Jacobson said. “This is a devastating defeat not only for Rasmea, but for the anti-Israel activists backing her. By taking a plea, she sold out her supporters, just like she sold out dozens of her fellow terrorists when she confessed to the deadly supermarket bombing in 1969.”

Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
====================
I hear rustling to my left followed by soft breathing. I open my eyes and look towards the noise, seeing Ezra sitting in a white chair, his eyes closed.

“Ez.” I breathe out.

He snaps his eyes open and looks at me, a smile widening on his face.

“Lo, you’re awake.” He says, reaching for my hand.

“Where am I?” I ask, pushing myself up and looking around.

“You’re in the hospital in Hidden Springs.” He answers, letting out a soft laugh, “You seem to be making a habit of waking up in hospitals.”

I smile at him. “What happened?”

“You unleashed a massive spell when you touched the President’s advisor. The Were lost her mind. Once she lost her grip on herself, she lost her power over the President, Silven, and Juniper. She had gotten a hold of a mind control potion and used it on the President, and a potion of paralysis for Silven and Juniper. The President as issued an order to suspend the war with the witches and other supernatural. He is working with the rest of the government to make amends and fix the country. Silven and Juniper lived. Juniper is the one taking care of you. She got her position back at the hospital.” Ezra tells me, smiling.

I lay quiet for a moment, taking it all in. The President was under mind control. I shake my head, aghast.

“How long have I been out?” I ask.

“Fifteen days.” He replies. “The spell ate up nearly all of your life force. You were touch and go there for a while, but you’re okay now. You and…” He pauses, his eyes sliding to my stomach.

“Me and…?” I ask, looking at him, confused.

“Well, you’re pregnant.” He laughs, a wide smile growing on his face.

“I-“ I begin, stopping. I reach my hands down to my stomach and rest them there. “I’m pregnant?”

Ezra nods. “Yes, you’re 5 weeks along with twins.”

I stare at my stomach. I’m pregnant, with twins. I bit my lip, excitement and apprehension filling my gut.

“Lo,” Ezra whispers, “We can do this.”

I look up to him and nod. “I know.” I say, pushing down my apprehension and letting my excitement take over.

Everything was okay now. The government was back to normal, we were free, I was okay, the two babies in my womb were okay. We could do this.

*********************

8 months later

“Push!” Juniper yells.

I clench my teeth and push for all I’m worth. Ezra stands by my side, holding my hand.

“You’re doing great baby.” He encourages.

“Shut up!” I scream, pushing again. I see him wince as I clench his hand tightly. I hear a cry split the air and Juniper hands something over to Spenser.

“Nearly there! Keep pushing!” Juniper tells me.

I take a deep breath and close my eyes. It’s nearly over. I push over and over, each time Juniper tells me to until she tells me to stop. Her face is long as she steps back.

“It’s over, you can rest now.” She states. She holds another bundle in her arms, but I don’t hear any more cries.

Her eyes rise to meet Ezra’s and she shakes her head.

“What, what is it?” I ask

“Your daughter,” Juniper begins, taking a deep breath, “Your daughter didn’t make it.”

She turns and leaves the room with the small bundle, with my daughter. I’m too in shock to stop her.

“Wha-what?” I mutter, no longer noticing the soft cries of my son or the nurses bustling about.

My eyes search for Ezra’s, knowing he’ll tell me the truth. He’ll tell me that I just misheard her. Instead, I’m greeted with his eyes brimming with tears. I did not mishear Juniper. I gave birth to twins, but only one is alive now.

AN: This is the end of Logan’s generation. It took me months, and quite a few tears, but it’s done now. I hope you guys enjoyed the ride with me, Logan, Ezra, and the rest of her family. I can’t wait to begin her son’s story. See ya’ll in the next post 🙂

Advertisements
====================
PHILADELPHIA -- With about 40 seconds remaining, the thousands of fans who remained until the end hoping not to witness history stood up and delivered a rousing standing ovation.

If ever a standing O sounded like a sigh of relief, this was it.

On Saturday night, the Philadelphia 76ers avoided going down in infamy as they crushed the Detroit Pistons 123-98, snapping a 26-game losing streak.

By winning for the first time since Jan. 29, the Sixers avoided setting the record for most consecutive losses in the history of any of the four major North American sports.

Some fans began chanting, "Thank you, Detroit" with over three minutes left. After his team notched its 16th victory of the season, coach Brett Brown talked about how proud he is of not only his team, but the city of Philadelphia for sticking by the Sixers (16-57).

And he also took the time to deliver a heartfelt reminder about how the Sixers' rebuilding plans will take more time and even more patience.

Sixers fans (bagged and unbagged) seemed to enjoy the win that snapped a 26-game losing streak. AP Photo/Matt Slocum

"We chose a path when Sam was hired," Brown said of the team's general manager Sam Hinkie. "And some may agree with it and some may not agree with it. We are not claiming it to be the correct way to do it. But we are committed to the plan. We don't want to blink.

"And times that you have just been through, they teach you a lot about different people, how things may sound good at the start of the plan yet people get wobbly and second-guess things. We are fully committed to seeing our plan through."

Surprisingly, a city with a reputation for some of the most unforgiving fans in all of sports seems to be fine with losing nearly 60 games to rebuild through the draft and free agency.

Gina Rodriguez, a season-ticket holder during the Allen Iverson era, is willing to endure all the losses if it means getting a dynamic star to pack the house the way Iverson once did.

"We'll be fine," Rodriguez said confidently while sitting behind the basket. "I really believe that they will get some players here that all jell like that 2001 season with Allen.

"Gotta rebuild," she added. "You have to. You have no choice."

When Pat Croce was president of the Sixers, he had the fortune of winning the lottery and landing AI. The two were able to lead the Sixers to the Finals in 2000-01. But even if there were an Iverson in this summer's draft, Croce said by telephone he would never be down for purposely tanking to land the most favorable pingpong balls on his watch.

"No [f---ing] way!" said Croce, a Philadelphia native who splits time living between Philadelphia and Florida. "I had the No. 1 pick and next year, obviously, we lost [60 games in 1996-97]. Tanking? Every loss I took [f---ing] personal! No! No! No! No! I couldn't do what they did this year. That would kill me. ... I am all about carpe diem, seize the day. So now you are allowing a year to go by of your life praying that it goes by very quickly?

"Philadelphia sports fans have passion, we have a winning attitude," Croce later added. "We don't like to accept losses, even if they are planned losses."

Croce, who now is a motivational speaker and also owns several restaurants in Florida, made it clear that he hopes Hinkie and Brown can resurrect Philadelphia basketball.

"No one likes to be in purgatory because you can be in purgatory forever," Croce said . "But it is scary. There is an old Jewish adage: Man plans and God laughs. There's no guarantee, right?"

Before Saturday, there had been only one sure thing for Sixers over the past two months, and that was a loss. The Sixers traded Evan Turner and Spencer Hawes before the trading deadline to basically ensure that they would stay the course, rebuild and free up cap space.

The Sixers potentially own seven draft picks in this year's NBA draft, including their own first-round pick and the Pelicans' first-rounder, as long as it's not in the top five.
====================
ON THE MORNING of October 24, 2010, veteran climbing Sherpa Chhewang Nima labored up from high camp on 23,389-foot Baruntse, a gabled summit near Everest in eastern Nepal. There were high clouds and strong gusts blowing fresh snow. At just over 7,000 meters and not particularly difficult, Baruntse doesn’t get classified among the world’s great expedition peaks, but it’s a popular stepping stone.

Roped to the 43-year-old was Nima Gyalzen, a Sherpa in his thirties from Rolwaling, a valley to the west. Normally employed by Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International, Chhewang was freelancing on this trip, making $1,000. His only client was Melissa Arnot, a then 26-year-old professional climbing guide for Rainier Mountaineering who lives in Sun Valley, Idaho. (Arnot made headlines last May when she intervened in a now infamous brawl between Sherpas and three European climbers at Camp II on Everest.) Nima Gyalzen was working for an Iranian team. The two had paired up that day to break trail and fix the ropes that Arnot, the Iranians, and several other teams lower down on the mountain would use for protection on their summit bids.

Arnot was in high camp. She’d planned to follow along the next day, giving the Sherpas time to work. The snow was deep, but, said Arnot, “I saw that they moved quickly through the area we thought was going to be slow. I thought they may have gone all the way to the summit.”

At around 2 P.M., just 600 feet shy of the top, Chhewang was hammering in a picket with his ice tool when the ground split like a firewood round and gave way beneath him. He’d been standing on a cornice, a fragile dollop of wind-hardened snow curling out over the ridgeline into space. In less than the time it takes to register panic or resolve, Chhewang Nima was gone.

According to the account given by Nima Gyalzen, tumbling blocks of ice had sliced through the rope, ensuring Chhewang’s demise and likely saving Nima Gyalzen from being hauled over the edge as well. When Nima Gyalzen could find no sign of his partner, he frantically headed down. Arnot, who received him in high camp, initially mistook his hysteria for jubilation.

“I brought tea to him, and I said, ‘Nice work, you make it to summit?’ ” she recalled, using the simplified dialect of Everest that guides call Sherpa English.

“No, no, no—accident,” said Nima Gyalzen. “Chhewang Nima finished.” He collapsed into the snow.

Arnot called her in-country trekking agent, Jiban Ghimire, to request a helicopter for a body search.

AHEAD OF THE tragic 1996 Everest climbing season, the infamous subject of Into Thin Air, ill-fated American guide Scott Fischer told writer Jon Krakauer, “We’ve built a yellow brick road to the summit.” He was referring to the miles of ropes that are now annually set along most of the South Col route between Base Camp and 29,035 feet. More accurately, however, it’s Sherpas who do the construction and, all too often, become its casualties. As a result of their work fixing lines, shuttling supplies, and escorting paid clients to the summit of Everest and dozens of other Himalayan peaks, Sherpas are exposed to the worst dangers on the mountain—rockfall, crevasses, frostbite, exhaustion, and, due to the blood-thickening effects of altitude, clots and strokes.

The spring of 2013 provided another devastating string of tragedies that illustrate how dangerous it is to work on Everest. On April 7, Mingma, 45, one of the legendary Icefall Doctors responsible for securing the route through the Khumbu Icefall for all of the teams on the mountain, fell into a crevasse near Camp II. On May 5, International Mountain Guides co-owner Eric Simonson wrote that his team had also “lost a member of our Sherpa family.” DaRita, 37, was at Camp III when he felt dizzy—likely “a sudden cardiac or cerebral event”—and soon died. Three days later, 22-year-old Lobsang, who was returning from Camp III for Seven Summit Treks, fell into a crevasse and perished. And on May 16, Namgyal, working for Explore Himalaya, succumbed to an apparent heart attack after summiting for the tenth time.

According to the Himalayan Database, which keeps track of such things, 174 climbing Sherpas have died while working in the mountains in Nepal—15 in the past decade on Everest alone (see sidebar for a country-by-country comparison). During that time, at least as many Sherpas were disabled by rockfall, frostbite, and altitude-related illnesses like stroke and edema. A Sherpa working above Base Camp on Everest is nearly ten times more likely to die than a commercial fisherman—the profession the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention rates as the most dangerous nonmilitary job in the U.S.—and more than three and a half times as likely to perish than an infantryman during the first four years of the Iraq war. As a dice roll for someone paying to reach the summit, the dangers of climbing can perhaps be rationalized. But as a workplace safety statistic, 1.2 percent mortality is outrageous. There’s no other service industry in the world that so frequently kills and maims its workers for the benefit of paying clients.

The result is that in Kathmandu and in villages across the Khumbu region, dependents are left without breadwinners or, in the case of serious injury, forced to choose between supporting or abandoning a disabled husband. Take, for example, two climbing Sherpas struggling with post-stroke paralysis: Ang Temba, 54, and Lhakpa Gyalzen, 65. Ang Temba suffered his first stroke high on Everest’s north side while working for a Japanese team in 2006. His wife, Furba, 48, who cares for him at their home in Kathmandu, recalled the stern warning of the Japanese doctor who examined him in Base Camp following his rescue: “He said don’t go mountaineering.” But the next year, after making a relatively quick recovery, Ang Temba was offered a job working on Everest for Kathmandu-based Asian Trekking. “There is no option other than mountaineering,” said Furba, illustrating the choice that so many Sherpas are faced with. “If he’d agreed with the Japanese doctor, then he would not be in this situation right now. It was a bad decision.”

Shortly after Ang Temba returned from the mountain in 2007, Furba found him unconscious on the couch. His right side is now paralyzed, and he can’t speak. “It’s more difficult than looking after the kids,” Furba said. “He goes to the toilet in a bedpan.” Still, Ang Temba is relatively lucky: Furba stayed with him and managed to collect roughly $5,500 when, after more than a year of wrangling, his employer’s insurer agreed that his disablement was complete, unrecoverable, and work related.

Lhakpa Gyalzen, who was climbing for a Chinese expedition in 2000 when he suffered a stroke, wasn’t so fortunate. Though he can still get around with a cane and has limited speech, his wife and kids have moved away. One evening last October, I went to visit him in Phortse, just 15 miles downhill from Everest. Lhakpa Gyalzen wasn’t home when I arrived, but when I returned the next morning he was in bed, eating a large plate of white rice that he’d cooked. The previous night, he explained, he’d fallen off the trail while limping down to the river—a 20-minute walk for a fit hiker—to cut bamboo for a religious ceremony. Unable to get up, he’d lain there for most of the night and then dragged himself home in the morning. “Very cold. Very hungry,” he said of his night out in the bushes.

Lhakpa Gyalzen was at 27,000 feet when he had his stroke. Immobilized, he slept there for two nights before the Chinese expedition sent some of the team’s Sherpas to retrieve him. When he got off the mountain, he had to pay for his own care. “The Chinese expedition didn’t pay any expense at the hospital,” he said. “All the expenses were done by my personal. Food, medicine, everything.”

CASES LIKE THESE unfold each year in relative obscurity. After a Sherpa dies on Everest, there are always heartfelt tributes from Western climbers. “The Sherpa[s] are the heroes of the Himalayas,” wrote a team from the U.S. Air Force earlier this spring after the death of Icefall Doctor Mingma. In most cases, there’s a government-mandated insurance payment of roughly $4,600, covered by policies taken out by the in-country trekking agents who arrange foreign outfitters’ on-the-ground logistics. And if the Sherpa was well known or worked for a top outfitter, there might be a hat passed around for donations, as was done last year after Himalayan Experience Sherpa Dawa Tenzing died of a stroke he suffered at Camp I. Professional climber Conrad Anker walked with HimEx owner Russell Brice to Phortse to deliver roughly $600 to Dawa Tenzing’s widow, Jangmu, who works as a farmer. (Brice, who has built a reputation for treating his Sherpa workforce well, said he “did much more” but would not elaborate for this story.)

Still, Western outfitters, guides, and their clients rarely witness the true fallout from a Sherpa death. In October 2010, when Chhewang Nima died, Melissa Arnot had to confront the realities firsthand. After searching for his body by air, Arnot and Nima Gyalzen helicoptered directly to Chhewang’s village of Thamo, landing in a potato patch behind the Tashi Delek, a small teahouse and guest lodge Chhewang had built with his earnings. By then, news had already reached the family.

“From outside I could hear the wailing,” recalls Arnot. “Like nothing I’d ever heard.” She entered the teahouse and found Chhewang’s widow, Lhamu Chhiki, and her boys, Ang Gyaltzen and Lhakpa Tenzing, then 14 and 12, in the kitchen. “I got on my knees in front of her and said I’m sorry. And a lama came and took me out of there and said, ‘You can’t be in here now, you have to go.’ ”

The scene Arnot was witnessing is one that has been repeated throughout the Himalayas since 1895, the year a British expedition first hired two locals to help them attempt Pakistan’s 26,660-foot Nanga Parbat. Both died on the mountain. Twenty-seven years later, during George Mallory’s 1922 assault on Everest, an avalanche tore through a rope team and killed seven Sherpas. In 1935, Everest pioneer Tenzing Norgay secured his first portering job in large part because six of the most experienced Sherpas had died the previous year on Nanga Parbat. In those early years of exploration, casualties were accepted as an unfortunate price of conquest. The question is whether, in 2013, the summit of Everest is still worth this kind of banal and predictable human sacrifice.

In the past decade, Everest has been transformed into a tourist attraction, the cornerstone of Nepal’s $370-million-a-year adventure-travel industry. Thanks to explosive growth in commercial guiding, the more than 300 paid clients who arrive each spring to attempt the Southeast Ridge route can mitigate their own risk by having Sherpas do the most dangerous labor for them. But little has changed for the workforce. The families of the men killed on the Mallory expedition in 1922 were eventually given 250 rupees each, a payout that, adjusted for inflation, is in line with the standard $4,600 insurance claims Sherpas receive today.

As Arnot would learn, that money doesn’t go very far. By the time she’d arrived in Thamo, several lamas had already come down from the monastery above the village to begin preparing for the puja, an elaborate Buddhist ceremony meant to speed the deceased’s spirit toward reincarnation. These ceremonies, which can cost more than the life-insurance payment, often end up compounding a widow’s grief with debt. Soon after, Arnot was confronted by members of Chhewang’s family who wanted to immediately launch an expensive body-recovery expedition. The urgency was over Chhewang’s spirit, which was at risk of getting lost and wandering the earth if it wasn’t set free within seven days by cremation. “I begged them not to go,” said Arnot, worried that others might die trying to recover the body. They went anyway and never made it beyond Base Camp due to snow conditions. Arnot paid $19,700 herself in helicopter fees and says her sponsor Eddie Bauer wired $7,000 to cover the puja. Arnot has now committed to paying Chhewang’s family what she can—which has amounted to roughly $4,000 a year—for as long as she’s guiding, though it hasn’t entirely eased her conscience.

“It’s the guilt of hiring somebody to work for me who really had no choice,” Arnot told me last October in Nepal, where I’d joined her on her second annual trek to visit Chhewang’s widow. “My passion created an industry that fosters people dying. It supports humans as disposable, as usable, and that is the hardest thing to come to terms with.”

THE SHERPA VILLAGE of Thame rides a high bluff of green pasture that’s gradually eroding off a 500-foot earthen cliff into the Bhote Kosi river. A 45-minute walk downstream is Thamo, home to another 40 or 50 families. Together they occupy the first arable land downvalley from Nangpa La, the 19,000-foot pass near Cho Oyu that the Sherpas have used for the past 500 years to cross into Nepal from Tibet.

These two towns have also been home to some of mountaineering history’s most famous Sherpas. Tenzing Norgay lived in Thame before he moved, in 1932, to Darjeeling, India, where expeditions were organized before Nepal’s monarchy opened the country to Westerners. Thamo’s Ang Rita, now 65, climbed Everest ten times without bottled oxygen, a record that earned him the moniker the Snow Leopard. And Thame’s Apa, the Super Sherpa, now 53, made his record 21st Everest ascent in 2011.

With his natural athleticism, Thamo’s Chhewang Nima becoming a climber was as inevitable as a broad-shouldered West Texan playing football. Like all young men coming of age in the village in the 1980s, superheroes like Ang Rita and Apa were his role models. At the time, Everest expeditions were still undertaken only by elite national teams, but supporting them was already the most profitable industry in the Khumbu. Climbers recognized the Sherpas’ superior strength at high altitudes, a genetic gift confirmed in studies that show Sherpas can process oxygen more efficiently. The Sherpas, then as now, recognized both the risk and the opportunity. In a 1981 essay in CoEvolution Quarterly by Thomas Laird, who frequently writes about Tibet, a Sherpa named Dorjee explained it like this: “A pilot they make much money but if accident, dead. If not accident, they are rich. We are the same with expeditions.”

Chhewang began his career in 1993, at age 25, at Alpine Ascents, apprenticing under his cousin Lakpa Rita. Within three years, the Nepalese government granted an unlimited number of permits for the popular Southeast Ridge route, a move that gave rise to the commercial era and expanded the number of opportunities for young men with dreams of making a name for themselves in the mountains. The careers of Chhewang and Lakpa Rita trace Everest’s arc from a capstone summit for elite climbers to a $30,000 to $120,000 package tour that anyone with a credit card can book online, a transformation that turned Thame and Thamo into virtual company towns where most of the climbers are employed by Alpine Ascents. The relationship has been profitable on both sides. Lakpa Rita has become one of Everest’s most well-respected sirdars (the boss of an outfitter’s Sherpa workforce) and now, as a recently naturalized U.S. citizen, splits his time between Seattle and Nepal. Chhewang rose steadily through the ranks as well, emerging as one of the industry’s most dependable climbers.

At the time of his death, Chhewang had climbed Everest 19 times and was on track to break the aging Apa’s summit record within two years. As a top climbing Sherpa, however, Chhewang earned $6,000 per two-month climbing season to fix ropes, stock camps, and shuttle clients’ gear, food, tents, and oxy-gen up and down the mountain—while top Western guides, carrying less but charged with clients’ safety, can make up to $50,000 including tips. With his salary, Chhewang was supporting not only his own wife and children but the families of many of his eight brothers and sisters as well.

“If somebody in America climbs Everest 19 times, he’d be all over Budweiser commercials,” said Norbu Tenzing Norgay, 50, Chhewang’s cousin and the eldest living son of Everest pioneer Tenzing Norgay. “Sherpas don’t get the same recognition.” In the summer of 2010, while Chhewang was working in Alaska training trekking yaks for Alpine Ascents, Norbu, who now lives in San Francisco and is a vice president of the American Himalayan Foundation, was trying to help him land a serious sponsorship. He had coached Chhewang on how to artfully field questions from reporters, and in July he asked a publicist to shop Chhewang’s résumé around to several of the top brands. They included Mountain Hardwear, which had sponsored the late Babu Chiri, the legendary Sherpa who held the speed record on Everest but died in 2001 after falling into a crevasse near Camp II. Norbu talked to Chhewang, who he recalls was making “a pittance” compared with Western guides, about postponing his trip home from Alaska to Nepal so he could meet with potential sponsors in San Francisco. “He said, ‘Oh no, brother, it’s too expensive to change the ticket.’ I didn’t realize it was just a couple hundred bucks.”

A few weeks later, Norbu was traveling for business in India and channel surfing when he saw the news about his cousin. “I’m sitting in a hotel room in Ganges, and there’s a BBC story that he’d died,” he recalls. “I was completely shocked.”

The tragedy has left him questioning the fairness of a profession that so many of his family members continue to depend on. “I’ve lost a number of relatives on Everest and other mountains just carrying other people’s crap,” he told me. “Times have changed. It’s not the fifties anymore. It’s the Everest business. Sherpas are being pushed to climb Everest because people paid sixty grand.” While he appreciates the attempts Arnot and other Western climbers have made to help, he doesn’t believe goodwill alone can rebuild the families destroyed by climbing. “Intention to help is not good enough. I’ve seen so many broken promises.”

THERE HAVE BEEN improvements for Sherpas working on Everest in the past decade. In the early days of expedition climbing, Sherpas received very little training and relied almost solely on their unique ability to operate at high altitude. Today, many of the 10,695 Sherpas registered as sirdars and support climbers take courses offered by the Nepal Mountaineering Association in Langtang or by the Khumbu Climbing Center, a nonprofit training school for high-altitude porters in Phortse. The latter, where Chhewang was a regular instructor, was founded by American professional climbers Conrad Anker and Peter Athans in 2003 and built by a group of Montana State University architects. At both schools, Sherpas learn rope and high-angle-rescue skills. Another Montanan, Luanne Freer, launched her Everest ER clinic in Base Camp in 2003 and offers free care to all Sherpas whose expeditions have contracted with her organization.

In addition, there is now a small, mandatory safety net in place to aid injured Sherpas or support their families in the event of a death. Since passage of the 2002 Tourism Act Amendment, Nepal’s Ministry of Tourism and Aviation has required all local trekking agents to purchase rescue and life insurance for their porters. Sherpas working above Base Camp need at least $4,600 in death coverage and $575 in medical, while low-altitude porters must be insured at $3,500. Each expedition must also cover its Sherpas with, collectively, at least $4,000 in rescue insurance.

Still, it doesn’t take long to discover how inadequate most of these measures really are. While training is significant, no amount of practice inoculates Sherpas from the increased exposure to risk they’re asked to take on in the mountains. Walking through the Khumbu Icefall, a shifting glacier with the constant threat of calving, is considered so dangerous that some outfitters acclimatize their clients on neighboring peaks to avoid traveling through it. In a typical season, a climbing Sherpa might make a dozen round-trips through this area, some earning a bonus for each extra lap. Guides and clients usually make between two and four.

When it comes to rescue insurance, the $4,000 coverage is almost meaningless. High-altitude helicopter rescues, which became routine starting in 2011, have drastically increased the chances of surviving an accident above Camp II. They also cost $15,000 each—more than three times what the required insurance will cover. That gap has already led to embarrassing problems.

In 2012, Summit Climb Sherpa Lakpa Nuru was beaned by a falling rock on the Lhotse Face and lay bleeding and semiconscious at Camp II. Meanwhile his expedition leader, Arnold Coster, haggled with Summit Climb’s in-country trekking agent, Everest Parivar Expeditions, over a medevac’s $15,000 price tag. About a half-hour into the negotiation, Rainier Mountaineering guide Dave Hahn came over the radio from Camp II urging other expeditions in Base Camp to take up a collection before the rescue became a body recovery.

“The trekking agent might have been hesitant to commit to such a large expense,” acknowledges Summit Climb’s owner Dan Mazur, who confirmed that he eventually paid $11,000 out of pocket for the uninsured portion of the flight. Lakpa Nuru survived, and last October, when I stopped by his home in Phakding, he was already back out working in the mountains despite recurring headaches and problems with his balance.

The $4,600 death benefit is similarly deficient. While that money represents a large sum in a country where the average annual income is still $540, it’s rarely enough to provide for the extended families many climbing Sherpas support. Western climbers will often swoop in to help fill the gaps, but this leads to an unfortunate disparity between outcomes. The family of Chhewang Nima are fortunate that he was so popular. In addition to Arnot committing to replace Chhewang’s annual salary and Eddie Bauer contributing $7,000, the Khumbu Climbing Center’s Athans and Anker raised another $5,000 for their star instructor. “Chhewang was very well liked,” explains Athans. “Conrad just happened to be at a sales meeting for the North Face and passed around a hat.”

Acknowledging the downside of such chance generosity, Athans continued: “Obviously, we realize that someone like Chhewang’s wife is doing better than most of the other folks who have lost a significant family member. There are other people who become destitute. It’s one of those things that tourism has neglected.”

NEARLY EVERY VETERAN guide and outfitter I spoke with was aware of the inadequate safety net, and many of them were actively trying to make a difference. Anker and Athans are working on a fund they hope to use for Sherpa insurance premiums. Alpine Ascents owner Todd Burleson established the Sherpa Education Fund in 1999 to help Sherpa children go to boarding school in Kathmandu. (My translator for this story, Tsering Tenzing, an impressive young man from Thamo, is finishing his bachelor’s degree next year with help from the fund.) Arnot and former Alpine Ascents head guide David Morton recently set up a nonprofit called the Juniper Fund, which they’ll use to disburse aid to Sherpa widows, lobby the government for stiffer requirements, and urge outfitters to adopt a set of best practices. There are many other such programs, run by outfitters and climbers alike.

Despite these good intentions, there remains a surprising lack of understanding among clients and outfitters about how Sherpas are covered. Many outfitters I spoke with were aware of the insurance requirements but had no idea how much they paid out. For example, when I spoke with Peter Whittaker, the owner of Rainier Mountaineering, a boutique outfitter known for running small, high-end trips, he said, “I trust my Nepalese outfitter is meeting the requirements, but I’ll have to confirm specific insurance details.” When he subsequently checked with his in-country agent, High Altitude Dreams, Whittaker—whose company has an enviable safety record—discovered that his Sherpa staff had been covered at an above-average $8,000 until 2012 but this year dropped back to the minimum.

In fairness, the current system for employing Sherpas promotes a certain amount of this ignorance. Guided clients typically hire Western outfitters like Rainier Mountaineering, which in turn are required by law to hire in-country trekking agencies. It’s those trekking agents who actually hire the Sherpas, purchase insurance for them, and help them collect after an accident. On the one hand, the trekking agents act as docents, helping outfitters navigate Nepal’s disorganized bureaucracy. But they also make handy scapegoats after a snafu, since they’re the Sherpas’ technical employer. The system fosters a kind of plausible deniability in which each person thinks he’s acting in good faith while others are failing. A Brit named Mark Horrell, who was on Baruntse days after Chhewang’s death in 2010, illustrated this common fallacy in a 2011 e-book titled The Tomb of Chhewang Nima. After the body-recovery mission had been abandoned, Horrell’s partner speculated that Arnot was “a single climber, rich, American, offering a lot of money to fix ropes up there.” Meanwhile, Horrell noted, “All of our porters are insured by our agency the Responsible Travellers.” In fact, they all had the same anemic policy.

In Nepal, “the minimum is the standard,” explained Dip Prakash Panday, the CEO of Kathmandu-based Shikhar Insurance, which covers many of the expeditions going to Everest. If the life insurance requirement is only $4,600, there’s no incentive for the trekking agencies who hire Sherpas to go higher than that. Some of these agencies recognize the issue and are willing to change their practices, but they fear that increasing their premiums will mean losing business. “I’d go to $11,000,” said trekking agent Jiban Ghimire at a meeting last fall in Shikhar’s board room. “But I don’t want to be the only one.” Ghimire’s company, Shangri-La Treks, is among the most prolific in-country trekking agencies, providing logistics for big-name clients such as Alpine Ascents, Eddie Bauer, the North Face, and National Geographic, among others.

On June 4, following the deaths of four more Sherpas on Everest, the Nepalese government announced increases to the mandatory insurance minimums, which will go into effect in 2014. Rescue-insurance requirements have jumped from $4,000 to $10,000, an incremental improvement, but still less than the cost of a helicopter flight above Base Camp. Health coverage will rise from $575 to nearly $4,000, a significant change for the better. Death and accident insurance, however, which will rise from $4,600 to $11,000 for high-altitude workers, is still inadequate. Several of Nepal’s insurance companies are willing to cover workers with the most dangerous jobs for up to $23,000, a move that, for large companies like International Mountain Guides and Alpine Ascents, which use approximately 20 Sherpas above Base Camp, would cost less than $2,000 more per season.

ONE THING THAT nobody is proposing to do away with is Sherpa support in the Himalayas. Without their efforts, no commercial expedition would make it to the summit. And as demonstrated by the number of Sherpas who get seriously injured only to return the very next season, the work is still in high demand. “If you could cancel all the work going to Everest,” said Athans, “unanimously, they’d say no.”

In Edmund Hillary’s time, the Sherpa-supported siege style that’s still favored by commercial expeditions was the only way. But as the light-and-fast tenets of alpinism have taken hold, using Sherpas above Base Camp has fallen out of favor just as much as using supplemental oxygen, at least among the elite professional climbers who come to Everest each year looking to put up historically significant new routes. This spring, the now infamous Everest brawl underscored the growing rift between elite climbers and the Sherpas who depend on Everest employment.

The conflict centered on two top professional climbers, Italian Simone Moro, 45, and Swiss Ueli Steck, 36, and their British photographer, Jonathan Griffith, 29. The three ignored the custom of staying off the Lhotse face while a Sherpa fixing team was installing the ropes. Each team accused the other of knocking ice down on its members. They argued, each deprived of oxygen at 23,000 feet and speaking in their second or third language, English. Tempers flared. According to 28-year-old Karma Sarki, one of the Sherpas on the Lhotse Face that day, Moro called them chor (“thieves”). Moro also admits to shouting machickne (Nepali for “motherfucker”), which was captured by a Sherpa’s hot radio microphone and broadcast around the mountain.

The actual fight took place when the two teams returned to Camp II. Moro and Steck were kicked, punched, and hit with rocks. Though bloodied, they didn’t require medical treatment. Melissa Arnot, who was going for her fifth summit, the most by any non-Sherpa woman, got in between the Europeans and the Sherpas to try to break it up. “I felt it was much less likely that they would hit me with a rock or anything else, just being a woman,” she told Good Morning America via satellite phone from the mountain.

In the days after the event, Moro, Steck, and a host of top pros would reiterate their belief that they had a right to be on the Lhotse Face and that they didn’t need Sherpa help. “We pay a lot of money to be there, so why should I not be allowed to climb?” Steck told Outside Online. Still, the very idea of an unsupported climb on the south side of Everest is a fallacy. Steck and Moro may have been climbing unsupported, but just getting to Camp II required using Sherpa-installed ladders through the Icefall. During a celebration at the British Embassy in Kathmandu last May to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the first Everest summit, Reinhold Messner, considered the dean of modern alpinism, had harsh words for mountaineers who want it both ways. “Climbers who cross ladders set by Sherpas at the Khumbu Icefall,” he told the crowd, “then go up without ropes and claim to be special are parasites.”

Karma Sarki, who was also involved in the fight that day, said that Moro had insulted their work in addition to calling them offensive names. “He said, ‘Do you need money? We will fix the ropes up to the South Col.’ ” And by climbing Alpine style, the Europeans had moved much faster than the Sherpas that day, causing the rope-fixing team to lose face. “The Sherpas were furious because the three climbers had overtaken us,” Karma Sarki continued, “and they did so in our country, on our mountain. We put our lives at risk for climbing Everest and helping the foreign climbers. Everest is everything for us.” None of these factors excuse the Sherpas’ violent actions, but the apparent double standard—using Sherpa help, but only some of the time—might explain why the rope fixers were so angry.

This blurring of lines is beginning to occur throughout the sport. Top climbers continue to put Sherpas in harm’s way despite the wide-spread belief that pros should do their own dirty work. Arnot was fully capable of leading on Baruntse in 2010 but chose not to. More recently, in July 2012, Lhakpa Rangdu, a soft-spoken, 44-year-old father of three and ten-time Everest summiter, was hired by a Scottish and South African trio to attempt the unclimbed, six-mile Mazeno ridge on Pakistan’s 26,657-foot Nanga Parbat, “one of the most coveted goals left in the Himalaya,” according to the team’s website. Along with one of the team’s other two Sherpas, Lhakpa Zarok, he broke trail to roughly 650 feet from the summit before turning back.

“We were hired for fixing the lines,” Lhakpa Rangdu said last October in the small ground-floor apartment he and his wife, Lhakpa Diki, 36, rent in Kathmandu’s Dhapasi neighborhood. He sat with his left foot crossed over his knee, revealing a knotted and scarred ankle. When he fell—catching a crampon in the rocks and breaking his ankle—Lhakpa Rangdu was roped to South African Cathy O’Dowd, then 43. The pair, along with the team’s other two Sherpas, were descending while Scots Sandy Allan and Rick Allen went for the summit. “Fortunately, we were one day away from the valley,” said O’Dowd. “He had to climb down the next day on a broken ankle.”

Ten days later, after a horse ride into town and a flight back to Kathmandu, where his foot was X-rayed, Lhakpa Rangdu was told by a doctor at the Om Hospital that he’d need surgery. He had $575 in medical coverage and paid an additional $500 out of the $3,000 he earned from the expedition. Pakistan also requires insurance for Sherpas, but here again, the details weren’t something the climbers, who are understandably more focused on staying safe and making the summit, had spent a lot of time thinking about. “Most of that was done by our ground agent, Adventure Pakistan, so I can’t tell you how it works,” said O’Dowd. “But the Sherpas definitely had insurance.”

Sandy Allan, who calls Rangdu an “ace man and a very dear friend,” wired him another couple of thousand. “We did not give money just because he broke his leg, though,” wrote Allan in an e-mail. “I knew he would get it fixed by the insurers.” Instead, Allan wanted to help Rangdu feed his family while he was out of work.

Allan and Allen’s July 16 summit via the Mazeno ridge was a historic mountaineering first. It was also achieved using hired Sherpa support, a fact that would usually be in direct conflict with the strict standards of modern alpinism. But in April 2013, at a ceremony in Chamonix, the two won a coveted Piolet d’Or (golden ice ax), the highest award in climbing. O’Dowd tweeted, “A Piolet for Mazeno ridge, as much for Lhakpa Rangdu, Zarok, and Nuru, as for those of us at the event.”

“All of clients are very happy with the Sherpas,” Lhakpa Rangdu told me back in October. “The Sherpas are not for summit; we are for work.”

LAST OCTOBER, I crowded into a small mud-wall apartment in Namche Bazaar, where Lakpa Rita’s niece (and Chhewang’s cousin) Nima Lhamu steamed momos on an electric hot plate to sell to porters hauling goods to the weekly market that gives the town its name. Former Alpine Ascents guide David Morton, his wife, Japanese-American Kristine Kitayama, an administrator at Alpine Ascents, and their two-year-old son, Thorne, were there, too.

In April 2006, Nima Lhamu was six months pregnant with her and husband Dawa Temba’s first child when he died in the Icefall along with two other Sherpas. He was 22. “I was pregnant, and when I tried to go to Kathmandu, the insurance money was already taken by his mother,” said Nima Lhamu. “After that they started fighting with me and then stopped talking to me.” Her son Tenzing Chosang was born a few months later. Two years ago, Nima Lhamu remarried Karma Sarki, the Alpine Ascents fixer. Following Sherpa cultural mores, in order to take another husband, she left then four-year-old Chosang in the care of her parents, Dati and Pasang Rita, a retired Everest climbing Sherpa. Morton and Kitayama have volunteered to sponsor Chosang’s schooling. It was a blur of overlapping relationships that seemed to capture the whole complicated mess. For more than a hundred years, Western climbers have helped raise Sherpas out of poverty to ethnic celebrity, inadvertently smashing families and then struggling to help piece them back together.

The following day, I accompanied Arnot on a walk to Thamo to visit Chhewang Nima’s widow, Lhamu Chhiki. Chhewang’s surviving children, Ang Gyaltzen and Lhakpa Ten-zing, were home on school break to visit their mother. Her house, the Tashi Delek lodge, sits behind a low wall just downhill from a long row of carved Buddhist mani stones that divide the trail.

Lhamu Chhiki met us in her kitchen, wearing a traditional striped Sherpa apron and looking grave. She teared up as soon as she saw Arnot but motioned for us to sit and served tea. Arnot told her that she may have found work for her at the Sherpa Adventure Gear store in Kathmandu. Then she handed her an envelope stuffed with U.S. hundreds, a ritual Arnot told me is the hardest thing she does each year.

After 15 minutes of catching up, I asked Lhamu Chhiki if it would be OK for Arnot to leave and for me to interview her alone.

“I never wanted my kids to be mountaineers,” Lhamu Chhiki said. “I want to give them an education so after they are raised they can do something other than mountaineering.”

Toward the end of our brief exchange, I asked her whether she blamed Arnot for her husband’s death. “No,” she said, “I don’t blame Melissa.”

Up the trail in Thame that night we met up again with the Mortons, who’d agreed to walk Nima Lhamu’s son Chosang back up to his grandparents’ house in Marlung. The next morning, out on the village’s east-facing terraces, the air was so still that the only sounds were the bells on the dzos and the tiny stream running past the Sun Shine Lodge.

Outside, we met Nima Lhamu’s brother, Mingma Tshering, a handsome 21-year-old with high, broad cheekbones who speaks good English. He’d recently finished high school in Kathmandu, thanks to the sponsorship of a German benefactor, and he told us he sees options for his future. “The people in the old times weren’t educated,” he said. “They were forced to go to Everest.”

Then again, he also grew up hearing his father, Pasang Rita, cousin Chhewang, and uncle Lakpa Rita tell the same stories of Everest we’ve all read over the years. “From my childhood, I’ve dreamed of climbing Everest,” he said. Pasang Rita retired from working the expedition peaks in 2012. “Me and my younger brother are planning to go instead of him,” said Mingma. He’d decided to work on Everest but hadn’t told his sister Nima Lhamu his plans. “I want to experience the mountain life. Maybe it will be only one time that I climb Everest. After that, no risky job.”

He’s been told that once you start, it can be hard to quit.

Senior editor Grayson Schaffer wrote about the 1963 American summit of Everest in May. Additional reporting by Deepak Adhikari. Listen to the complete story, read by the author.
====================
MADISON, Wis. -- When summer temperatures rise and people turn to their air conditioners to stay cool, something else also increases: air pollution.

A new study published Wednesday (May 3, 2017) in the journal Environmental Science & Technology shows that the electricity production associated with air conditioning causes emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide to increase by hundreds to thousands of metric tons, or 3 to 4 percent per degree Celsius (or 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit).

"The hottest days of the summer typically coincide with the days of highest air pollution," says study lead author David Abel, a graduate student in the Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "We quantified the relationship between daily temperature and power plant emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and carbon dioxide on a state-by-state basis in a comprehensive manner that hasn't been done before."

Increased emissions of these gases can affect not only the environment but also people's health. Sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides -- both of which are regulated in the U.S. -- can cause respiratory problems, particularly in children, people with asthma and the elderly. Carbon dioxide is a primary greenhouse gas targeted by power plant regulations.

"We show that increased electricity demand may play a key role in high levels of ozone, particulate matter and other pollutants, so efforts to reduce peak demand could be beneficial to public health," Abel explains.

Scientists have long known that air pollution is highest on hot days but few studies have looked at the specific effects of electricity emissions on the hottest days and what they contribute to air pollution. The report's state-specific findings provide valuable data for policymakers and other local stakeholders, who can see how emissions in their region respond to temperature.

"Most of the research on climate and air pollution has focused on other emission sources, chemical reactions in the air, and how weather patterns can trap pollution," says Tracey Holloway, who led the study. Holloway is a professor of environmental studies at the Nelson Institute and in the UW-Madison Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences. She says the study carries the discussion a step further: "We showed that hot summer days also have higher emissions from power plants."

The study team included scientists at Seventhwave, a Madison-based nonprofit, and Paul Meier, an engineer at Blumont/International Relief and Development who was with the Wisconsin Energy Institute at UW-Madison when he completed the work. Using data collected between 2003 and 2014, the team crunched the numbers on electricity emissions in 26 states in the eastern U.S., along with Texas.

They showed that power plants released 3.35 percent more sulfur dioxide on average per degree Celsius increase in temperature, and that nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide rose by 3.60 percent and 3.32 percent, respectively. Although overall emissions dropped in the study period -- primarily due to increased use of emissions-control devices and a decrease in coal use -- the analysis showed large regional variability.

The researchers were surprised to find that states with lower overall emissions in the Northeast show the highest sensitivity to temperature. This, they say, highlights the importance of peak electricity generation on hot days and the role of older or less regulated facilities that may only be turned on when people blast their air conditioners. These are often the days when pollution control is most important to protect public health. Abel says a large portion of the U.S. population continues to regularly encounter air pollution.

The researchers plan to continue studying the impacts and interactions of increases in emissions on hot summer days with other processes that affect concentrations of ozone, particulates, and other forms of air pollution.

"Our next step is to compare the impact of electricity emissions with other factors affecting pollution formation - especially chemistry, natural emissions, and wind patterns," notes Holloway. "We'd like to be able to say how these processes interact. For example, relative to other factors controlling pollution formation, how important is the response of emissions from power plants?"

###

The study was funded by UW-Madison, the National Institutes of Health and NASA.

Adapted from a release by Christine Suh at the American Chemical Society.

Jenny Peek

peek@wisc.edu

608-263-9289
====================
We all know that there are few things in life better than climbing into the cockpit of your favorite space fighter and giving the Schism a good kicking, but after a few hours, you might find that your trigger finger's getting a little bit sore and you're in need of a little breather.

Right now all you can do in these circumstances is retire to the hangar to fiddle with your upgrades or maybe try out some new paint jobs, but as soon as the new Winter Update touches down you'll discover a whole new way to enjoy EVE: Valkyrie – Warzone, and that's Spectator Mode.

You've been requesting it for a long time, and we've been listening. Spectator Mode gives you the opportunity to drop into matches and simply watch the action unfold, and it comes with some great tools to give you the best possible view of every match without having to get your hands dirty.

Get behind the lens

There's no need for a big tutorial; it's designed to be as easy to get to grips with as your first Yurei. Once you connect to a match in Spectator Mode, you'll have full vision over the battlefield – much like the tactical map – with the ability to zoom and focus on a particular point of the battle. Then by selecting one of the in-game ships, you'll jump to a third-person camera tethered to it.

When you're in ship camera mode you'll naturally move around with the ship that you're attached to, but you can switch between assorted camera positions to get the best possible view, and of course, you can move the camera around to keep an eye on the action. With the left stick, you can orbit the ship, while with the right stick you can pan and zoom your view so that you never miss a trick.

If you'd prefer to watch a different ship, with one button press you can switch to another, ensuring that you never need to be far from the action. But if all that whizzing around gets a bit much, there's another Spectator Mode option you can try as well.

On top of the ship camera mode, there's an alternative hotspot mode. Here, rather than being anchored to a ship, you can jump between cameras set at fixed points around the map. They're carefully chosen as the places where the action's going to unfold in any particular game – relic sites, control points, carrier cores and so on – so you can be certain that you'll have the best seat in the house for those pivotal in-game moments.

Watch, learn and create

Spectator Mode's the perfect way to cool your jets without having to drop out of Warzone and deal with the real world, but it's also the ideal environment in which to watch the best players duke it out, and learn some of their secrets at the same time. Plus, of course, it's an amazing tool for putting on your director's hat to record or broadcast some epic space battles for everyone else to enjoy; once you've enabled Spectator Mode then it's just a matter of turning on your preferred broadcast software and sharing your footage with the world.

We can't wait to see what you do with Spectator Mode, and to encourage your creative glands we'll soon be announcing a special video competition designed to get you out there and filming some hot Warzone action.

There's not long to wait until the Winter Update's ready for you to grab, and as well as Spectator Mode it'll also be bringing with it another much asked-for feature, Custom Matches, as well as the incredible new Moon Refinery map. We'll have more on those very soon; in the meantime, fly safe!
====================
There is growing concern about the steady decline in the number of people voting in EU elections. And it raises a fundamental question: just how can the Europe of the future be built without the participation of its citizens?

Getting people to exercise their right to vote, and strengthen political legitimacy, is a challenge for authorities everywhere. At the last EU elections in 2009 just 43 percent of eligible voters turned out. Three decades earlier the figure was just under 62 percent.

Hoping to do better in the next European polls in 2014 is Slovakia, an EU member since 2004. It scored the worst turnout at the last two ballots for the European Parliament, with less than one in five casting a vote. Belgium and Luxembourg scored best with more than 90 percent turnout, but they both have compulsory voting.

In Bratislava Euronews met a typical family that has never voted in European elections. Viera Psotova has her own cosmetics business. Her daughter Sylvia Tothova, whose baby girl Emily is six-months old, works in the information technology sector.

“I didn’t go to vote in the European Parliamentary elections in the past because I had very little information about it in the first place,” said Viera. “And I viewed it as distant from my problems. I was concerned with myself and Slovakia, and Europe was still very distant to me.”

Sylvia told Right On: “I don’t think people know what Members of the European Parliament actually do, and whether they can help us here at a local level.”

On why she has not yet voted in EU elections, she said: “I was too young before and had other interests. Young people are interested in other things. I wasn’t into politics at all back then. But the situation is different now; when you’re older you see things from a different perspective. So we’ll see.”

Some people say they are tired of so many rounds of various elections, and it is hard enough to keep up with complicated national politics. Others say they are happy not to vote after years of being forced to cast a ballot prior to independence in 1993.

Those charged with boosting Slovakia’s turnout stress that it did go up three per cent between the last two European ballots, but admit more effort is needed.

Robert Hajsel, the head of the European Parliament Information Office in Slovakia, told Euronews: “Still, it’s a very low turnout. But we are already closer to other member states. But it’s not a consolation for us. This is still a challenge.”

“We have to work on how to really increase the interest in the European Parliament, in the European elections, how to really create a platform for dialogue between our MEPs and different target groups like stakeholders, multipliers and also the broad public.”

But raising interest is no easy task. For its part the European Commission has issued a formal recommendation. It says national political parties should make it clear in campaigning which European parties they are affiliated with.

And to boost the political tempo and intrigue, parties are being told to nominate a candidate for European Commission President and make that known to voters ahead of election day.The European Parliament elects the president based on a proposal by EU leaders, who are supposed to take into account the election results.

Euronews reporter Seamus Kearney explained: “Another recommendation to spark more interest is to make the elections one single event. The commission wants to move away from the tradition of spreading the voting out over a four-day period. Member states are being urged to agree on one single date”.

But achieving a deal on that looks likely to be difficult.

Some observers say the recommendation is a step in the right direction but is still not enough, arguing the Commission has to be more dependent on the Parliament and election results. Political parties also have to communicate better.

Radovan Geist from the EurActiv website in Slovakia, which analyses EU policy, told Right On: “Basically what they have to tell citizens is that they can change something: if they vote for this or that party to the European Parliament they can change something in the direction of the EU. Because citizens don’t vote just because they like the institution, or they know a lot about it … or enough (about it). They vote if they feel they can change something, if they can change the political course.”

Most parties are yet to reveal their strategies for the next EU elections, but already there are calls for more information that is accessible and easy to digest.

Sylvia Tothova suggested: “Perhaps if well-known personalities were more involved in the presentation of the elections, people would become more familiar with the issues and might be prompted to go and vote.”

Her mother, Viera, added: “We should know what’s happening in Europe, who represents us there, and those people should provide us with information about what is going on there.”

Debate continues about other possible solutions including mandatory voting, or the idea of holding EU elections on the same day as local polls. Everyone seems to agree that something has to be done to stop the trend where so few are deciding for so many.
====================
Sony might soon start manufacturing smartphones in India. Sony India Managing Director Kenichiro Hibi said the company is "very seriously" considering starting a manufacturing facility in India.

The move comes to comply with India's recent 'Make in India' initiative, started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that encourages businesses to manufacture goods in India rather than importing them. Since then, several companies have shown interest in starting manufacturing facilities in India, including Foxconn. Samsung already manufactures the Tizen-based Z1 in India, and it seems Sony may be joining them soon.

According to Hibi, "Of course, thanks to Mr Modi's strong initiatives, some how we have to cope with country's direction and strategy. We are in talks as to how we can support country's direction. At this point of time, we do not have any specific comment. We are seriously studying as how can we reply to PM's requirements."

Hibi did not commit on a date and the amount of investment that would go into this, but said it would definitely happen within the next two years.

Source
====================
Toxic black dust covers a working class community in south Chicago when strong winds pick up Koch Industries owned petcoke piled high along the Calumet River.

Toxic black dust covers a working class community in south Chicago when strong winds pick up Koch Industries owned petcoke piled high along the Calumet River.

View of Pet Coke dust from 111th and Avenue M Southeast Chicago. Residents thought it was a fire before they realized it was a cloud of dust from piles of petcoke.

The Southeast Environmental Task Force has made it known to public officials that there is a great need to address the looming problem of PET COKE storage along the Calumet River. Thank you to Ald. Pope, State Reps Marcus Evans and Barbara Flynn Currie, State Sen. Kwame Raoule, Congressman Robin Kelly’s office for accompanying us on a tour of the river to observe the giant hills of the dusty black product being shipped in, stored and distributed so close to the homes on the southeast side. We are asking for their help in monitoring and regulating the shipment and storage of this product being moved in from the BP refinery in Whiting, Ind. The Task Force wasn’t alone in showing concern. We also had along: the South Chicago Chamber of Commerce, Illinois Environmental Council, Respiratory Health Assn., Natural Resources Defense Council, and Environmental Law & Policy Center for the two tours that we conducted. The pictures you can see here show what we observed. More about the actions we’re taking will soon follow. Meanwhile, we urge neighbors to call us at 773-646-0436 to report any problems arising from the major operations that are currently taking place from 100th Street to 112th along the river. Also, call 3-1-1 to make reports, or 9-1-1 if there is a major dust problem or other mishap

Detroit found out the Kocks dirty secret first. Now south Chicago knows. What happens in Alberta doesn't stay in Alberta. Petcoke, the dirty high carbon residue of Canadian tar sands refining, fouled Detroit. Detroit ordered the petcoke piles out. Now petcoke piles are covering south Chicago with black dust laced with toxic vanadium. Petcoke, the tar sands residue that is worse for the climate than burning coal, has been piled up near midwest refineries awaiting export to countries that allow it to be burned. Because it's a waste product of oil refining the Kochs sell it for prices cheaper than coal to poor nations willing the accept pollution as a trade off for cheap energy. Petcoke is the carbon cost ignored in the State department analysis that falsely claimed that Keystone XL tar sands oil will not significantly increase greenhouse gas pollution compared with conventional oil. The dirty carbon secret that the Kochs don't want you to know about is literally blowing in the wind. Working class and lower middle class communities were, as usual, the first to learn the Koch's dirty secret. Tar sands is carbon safely sequestered by nature in the ground. Mining it is destroying the land and poisoning the water of Alberta. Any means of transporting tar sands extract, known as dilbit is dangerous. Because tar sands extract is viscous it is diluted with toxic, volatile, aromatic hydrocarbon. When pipelines leak, as they inevitably do, the volatiles evaporate and the toxic, heavier than water extract, sinks into lakes, ponds, rivers and into the ground, poisoning everything it touches. If transported by rail it can destroy whole towns in an accident. As it's refined, tar sands oil creates a large volume of waste called petroleum coke or petcoke. As tar sands exploitation increases, petcoke is piling up near more and more refineries across the midwest.

As in Detroit, the Chicago piles are part of the business empire of the Koch brothers, earning the nickname “PetKoch.” KCBX, an affiliate of Koch Carbon which is a subsidiary of Koch Industries, owns large parcels of land along the Calumet River.

A mountain of Petcoke has been growing along the Calumet River, southeast Chicago, awaiting export to countries willing to burn the dirty cheap carbon.

Locals say the amount of petcoke has skyrocketed as BP Whiting’s refinery just across the border in Indiana nears completion of a $3.8 billion upgrade to process more tar sands oil. Still in the works is the refinery’s new coker, which will be the second largest in the world and process 102,000 barrels of oil per day, creating petcoke as the tar sands are heated to 900 degrees F. “It’s growing by leaps and bounds,” said Southeast Environmental Task Force member Tom Shepherd, gazing at the piles from the 106th Street bridge on a recent afternoon. “It’s coming at a breathtaking rate.” The Natural Resources Defense Council is investigating permits for the KCBX and Beemsterboer facilities and the origin of the material on the sites, said Meleah Geertsma, an attorney in the NRDC’s climate and clean air program. She said the facilities would be subject to permitting requirements related to fugitive dust and to any run-off into the river, but stricter state and federal requirements specifically for such piles are needed. “In the past state permits have been written very vaguely to leave a whole lot of discretion up to the company, to essentially make them unenforceable,” she said. “They’re saying things like ‘apply water as needed’ – instead of apply water four times a day.”

Petcoke is exported as cheap carbon fuel doing more climate damage than coal.

In the President’s recent speech on climate change, he said “our national interest will be served only if [Keystone XL] does not significantly exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution.” There are many reasons that the Keystone XL pipeline will clearly exacerbate the problem of climate pollution…but one that is often overlooked (at our peril) is the problem of petroleum coke (aka “petcoke”). Petcoke is a refining byproduct of tar sands oil, and when burned is substantially dirtier than coal and contributes significantly to greenhouse gas pollution. Read below to see just how significant Keystone XL’s petcoke problem would be…with enough petcoke to add emissions equivalent to 3.5 million additional cars each year, the question of whether Keystone XL’s climate impact is “significant” becomes an easy one to answer.

The damage from petcoke has only just begun as it fouls the air of the communities around its piles. The long-term damage to the climate from petcoke will be stunning if we continue to extract hydrocarbons from tar sands. Keystone XL must be stopped, but we must not stop there. Stopping Keystone XL is the first step in stopping tar sands exploitation, a must to save the climate.
====================
Tim Connors insists he won't be nervous Sunday.

That's because the Seattle Seahawks fan, who had the team's logo along with "XLVIII Champs" tattooed on his arm in August, says he hasn't envisioned a scenario in which the team loses to the Denver Broncos.

"I don't want to say they have it in the bag, but I'm pretty confident," Connors told ESPN.com Friday.

When Connors strolled into Good Karma Body Art in Edmonds, Wash., this summer, he talked with tattoo artist Lonnie Moon. Moon, who had worked on Connors plenty of other times, wasn't sure he wanted to do this one.

"I originally told him, 'No, you are going to jinx the team,'" Moon said. "But given what has happened, I'm glad we went ahead with it."

For months, Connors' tattoo, which cost him $100, was a relative secret among his friends and those he worked with at Trading Post Pawn & Gun in Bellingham, located about 90 miles north of Seattle.

"I thought nobody in the world would really care," Connors said.

But things changed when the local ABC affiliate, KOMO, shared Connors' story this month after the team beat the New Orleans Saints to get into the NFC Championship Game. Pictures of the tattoo above his right wrist went viral.

"I think some Seahawks fans were mad at me when they thought I had just got it," Connors said. "But when they realized I actually had it done in August, they kind of backed off."

The attention brought about by the risky tattoo not only resulted in an appearance for Connors on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" this week, but also led to an all-expenses paid trip to the Super Bowl, including tickets to the game.

On Tuesday, a representative from Frito-Lay called the tattoo parlor to try to get in touch with Connors, who happened to be in the shop getting his latest tattoo featuring, believe it or not, the Golden Girls.

"The motto for Doritos is 'For The Bold,'" Frito-Lay spokesman Chris Kuechenmeister said. "We are rewarding consumers for the bold in their life, and what Tim did was pretty bold."

On Friday, as Connors and his wife got ready to board a plane for New York, the Seahawks fan in him said he can't imagine his team not winning its first championship Sunday.

"It could be that I'm just a stupid fan, but I just don't see them losing," Connors said.
====================
This is a collection of ideas for Emacs features which could be implemented with crowdfunding.

Why crowdfunding?

Currently, Emacs is developed in a volunteer model: people work in their freetime on features and they are not paid for their work. This model works, Emacs is being developed. The problem is some features are not implemented in this model, because they either take too much time or effort to implement properly, so it’s not enough to work on them in one’s free time.

The solution is crowdfunding. A developer proposes to implement a feature, describes what he wants to implement, how much time he needs and how much compensation he requires to do it in order to make a living while he’s working on the feature. The users who are interested in the feature and want it to be implemented pledge money for the cause if they trust the developer (so the developer is better be somebody who can show some credentials, previous projects to prove he can do the job). If enough money is pledged and the funding goal is met then the developer can start working on the feature preferably with regular updates to let the users know about the progress of the project. If not enough money is pledged then the money is refunded to the users.

Emacs has lots of users and there are missing features which lots of users would love to see implemented, so this development model may work for Emacs too. For a discussion of this model see this thread and this one.

What are these crowdfunding sites?

There are several:

Kickstarter (the best known)

IndieGogo

and others (feel free to list other sites here if you know about them).

What are those missing features which people want?

Is there something you miss from Emacs? Then feel free to list it here, so potential developers have a list of wanted features to choose from. The main criteria for such a feature that it should be wanted by lots of people, so a crowdfunding project for the feature can be successful.

The list below is only an example. Add your own features and add subfeatures to the existing ones if you have more/better ideas. You can also pick suitable candidates from the WishList and put them here.

Coding support

Java

Eclipse-like QuickAssist.

Eclipse-like QuickFix

Eclipse-like overriding/implementing methods

Make java-mode aware of generics for syntax highlighting

Common Lisp

Completely rewrite Emacs in Common Lisp instead of C+Elisp.

Guile

Get Emacs to run on the Guile VM +1 This would speed up Emacs Lisp and allow other languages to be used instead of Emacs Lisp. How can we get this costed out, or otherwise get an estimate on how much we would need to raise to “Kickstart” this project?

Emacsy is a kickstarter project for a Guile library that provides Emacs-like facilities--keymaps, minibuffer, tab completion, recordable macros, and major/minor modes--for applications natively.

FFI

Provide a FFI so that we can use external libraries from lisp without having to patch the C code. Notice: if rewritten in Common Lisp then we don’t need this item since it comes for free with CL implementations.

Graphics

Provide a more versatile emacs windowing system, including interactive graphical windows. This would allow us to implement modes managing windows like in http://www.chris-granger.com/2012/04/12/light-table---a-new-ide-concept/. Notice: if rewritten in Common Lisp then we could implement it in CL, without having to write low-level graphic and windowing primitives in C.

Org Mode

Reliable Google Calendar/caldav sync support

Export to Microsoft Word

This is already possible.

First you export the Orgfile to OpenDocument format (This is the native format used by LibreOffice). Then you use LibreOffice to convert it to doc or docx format. See http://orgmode.org/manual/ODT-export-commands.html and http://orgmode.org/manual/Extending-ODT-export.html#x-export-to-other-formats.

This feature is available as part of Emacs-24.1.

Terminal Emulation

More work on EShell or better terminal emulation.

add more features here
====================
Using Regular Expressions in Visual Studio

4 minutes to read

In this article

Visual Studio 2012 uses .NET Framework regular expressions to find and replace text. In Visual Studio 2010 and earlier versions, Visual Studio used custom regular expression syntax in the Find and Replace windows. This topic explains how to convert some of the more commonly-used custom regular expression symbols to the .NET versions.

Tip In Windows operating systems, most lines end in “\r

” (a carriage return followed by a new line). These characters are not visible, but are present in the editor and are passed to the .NET Regular Expression service.

For more information, see .NET Framework Regular Expressions.

Tip For information about regular expressions that are used in replacement patterns, see Substitutions in Regular Expressions. To use a numbered capture group, the syntax is $1 to specify the numbered group and (x) to specify the group in question:. For example, the grouped regular expression (\d)([a-z]) finds four matches in the following string: 1a 2b 3c 4d. The replacement string z$1 converts that string to z1 z2 z3 z4> The equivalent syntax in Visual Studio 2010 is {:z}([a-z]) for the grouped regular expression and z\1 for the replacement string.

Comparing.NET Framework Regular Expressions

You can convert regular expressions from the version used in previous versions of Visual Studio to .NET Framework regular expressions by using the following table.

Purpose New Old New Example Match any single character (except a line break) . . a.o matches "aro" in "around" and "abo" in "about" but not "acro" in "across". Match zero or more occurrences of the preceding expression (match as many characters as possible) * * a*r matches "r" in "rack", "ar" in "ark", and "aar" in "aardvark" Match any character zero or more times (Wildcard *) .* .* c.*e matches “cke” in “racket”, “comme” in “comment”, and “code” in “code” Match one or more occurrences of the preceding expression (match as many characters as possible) + + e.+e matches "eede" in "feeder" but not "ee". Match any character one or more times (Wildcard ?) .+ .+ e.+e matches "eede" in "feeder" but not "ee". Match zero or more occurrences of the preceding expression (match as few characters as possible) *? @ e.*?e matches "ee" in "feeder" but not "eede". Match one or more occurrences of the preceding expression (match as few characters as possible) +? # e.+?e matches "ente" and "erprise" in "enterprise", but not the whole word "enterprise". Anchor the match string to the beginning of a line or string ^ ^ ^car matches the word "car" only when it appears at the beginning of a line. Anchor the match string to the end of a line \r?$ $ End\r?$ matches "end" only when it appears at the end of a line. Match any single character in a set [abc] [abc] b[abc] matches "ba", "bb", and "bc". Match any character in a range of characters [a-f] [x-y] be[n-t] matches "bet" in "between", "ben" in "beneath", and "bes" in "beside", but not "below". Capture and implicitly number the expression contained within parenthesis () () ([a-z])X\1 matches "aXa"and "bXb", but not "aXb". ". “\1” refers to the first expression group “[a-z]”. Invalidate a match (?!abc) ~(abc) real (?!ity) matches "real" in "realty" and "really" but not in "reality." It also finds the second "real" (but not the first "real") in "realityreal". Match any character that is not in a given set of characters [^abc] [^abc] be[^n-t] matches "bef" in "before", "beh" in "behind", and "bel" in "below", but not "beneath". Match either the expression before or the one after the symbol. | | (sponge|mud) bath matches "sponge bath" and "mud bath." Escape the character following the backslash \ \ \^ matches the character ^. Specify the number of occurrences of the preceding character or group {x}, where x is the number of occurrences \x, where x is the number of occurrences x(ab){2}x matches "xababx", and x(ab){2,3}x matches "xababx" and "xabababx" but not "xababababx". Match text in a Unicode character class, where “X” is the Unicode number. For more information about Unicode character classes, see Unicode Standard 5.2 Character Properties. \p{X} :X \p{Lu} matches "T" and "D" in "Thomas Doe". Match a word boundary \b (Outside a character class \b specifies a word boundary, and inside a character class specifies a backspace). < and > specify the beginning and end of a word \bin matches "in" in "inside" but not "pinto". Match a line break (ie a carriage return followed by a new line). \r?



End\r?

Begin matches "End" and "Begin" only when "End" is the last string in a line and "Begin" is the first string in the next line. Match any alphanumeric character \w :a a\wd matches "add" and "a1d" but not "a d". Match any whitespace character. (?([^\r

])\s) :b Public\sInterface matches the phrase "Public Interface". Match any numeric character \d :d \d matches and "3" in "3456", "2" in 23", and "1" in "1". Match a Unicode character \uXXXX where XXXX specifies the Unicode character value. \uXXXX where XXXX specifies the Unicode character value \u0065 matches the character "e". Match an identifier \b(_\w+|[\w-[0-9_]]\w*)\b :i Matches "type1" but not &type1" or "#define". Match a string inside quotes ((\".+?\")|('.+?')) :q Matches any string inside single or double quotes. Match a hexadecimal number \b0[xX]([0-9a-fA-F])\b :h Matches "0xc67f" but not "0xc67fc67f". Match integers and decimals \b[0-9]*\.*[0-9]+\b :n Matches "1.333".

See Also

Other Resources

Finding and Replacing Text
====================
Donald Trump has announced another cabinet pick that’s distressing to LGBT people and progressives in general — billionaire and right-wing activist Betsy DeVos for secretary of Education.

DeVos and her husband, Richard DeVos Jr., derive their wealth from Michigan-based Amway, a company cofounded by his father that specializes in direct sales of home, health, and beauty products. Members of the DeVos family are major donors to far-right causes, including the fight against marriage equality.

Several DeVos family members donated to the effort to amend Michigan’s constitution to ban same-sex marriage in 2004. Voters approved the amendment, which was struck down, along with other states’ anti–marriage equality laws, by the U.S. Supreme Court last year. Some reports indicated that Betsy and Richard DeVos led the campaign for the amendment and contributed money to it, but these reports have now been called into question. A listing of donors on FollowTheMoney.org shows donations by Richard DeVos Sr., Betsy's father-in-law; by her mother, Elsa Prince Broekhuizen; and by other DeVos relatives, but not by Betsy and her husband. The Advocate will continue to investigate and update this story as more information becomes available.

The Douglas and Maria DeVos Foundation, funded by Amway president Doug DeVos, Richard’s brother, donated $500,000 to the National Organization for Marriage in 2009 as it fought marriage equality in several states. Richard DeVos Sr., and back in the 1980s, serving on President Reagan’s AIDS commission, had told people with the disease, “You are responsible for your actions too, you know. Conduct yourself properly.”

Betsy DeVos’s mother, Elsa Prince Broekhuizen, in addition to donating to the Michigan anti–marriage equality campaign, helped fund the movement to pass Proposition 8, which revoked marriage equality in California until it was struck down in court, reports Daily Kos. Broekhuizen has served on the boards of anti-LGBT groups including the Family Research Council and Focus on the Family. Her first husband, the late Edgar Prince, was a cofounder of the Family Research Council.

Betsy DeVos is also not exactly a friend to public education. An advocate of school choice, she believes government bodies should provide vouchers to parents who want to send their children to private schools but can’t afford them. “We know that millions of children, mostly low-income and minority children, remain trapped in K-12 schools that are not meeting their needs,” she said in September, when Trump released an education plan heavy on school choice, Politico reports. “We applaud the Trump campaign’s focus on school choice and laying out common-sense proposals to help all children access a quality education.”

Opponents of the strategy, however, say it will undermine public education, and they strongly criticized Trump’s choice of DeVos. “DeVos has no meaningful experience in the classroom or in our schools,” said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, in a prepared statement. “The sum total of her involvement has been spending her family’s wealth in an effort to dismantle public education in Michigan. Every American should be concerned that she would impose her reckless and extreme ideology on the nation.”

Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the nation’s other leading teachers union, the National Education Association, also issued a statement denouncing DeVos’s nomination. “She has consistently pushed a corporate agenda to privatize, de-professionalize and impose cookie-cutter solutions to public education,” Eskelsen Garcia said. “By nominating Betsy DeVos, the Trump administration has demonstrated just how out of touch it is with what works best for students, parents, educators and communities.”

Other critics of DeVos’s nomination included Rev. Barry Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, who issued a statement calling it “an insult to public education.” He continued, “Private school vouchers violate the fundamental principle of religious freedom because they fund religious education with taxpayer dollars. This is indeed a dark day for public education in America.”

DeVos wasn’t always in Trump’s corner, notes The Washington Post. She and her family initially supported Marco Rubio in the Republican presidential primaries, and after he left the race, DeVos voted for John Kasich when she served as a delegate to the Republican National Convention. But today she tweeted that she is “honored to work with the President-elect on his vision to make American education great again. The status quo in ed is not acceptable.”
====================
This week is – Anti Poverty Week 2015 – in Australia and there are many events and happenings on to mark the time and to highlight the issue of poverty. I will be appearing on a panel on Wednesday afternoon in Newcastle (see below). I was thinking about what I might say in my short presentation next week as I read a report in the UK Guardian (October 17, 2015) – Wealth therapy tackles woes of the rich: ‘It’s really isolating to have lots of money’ – that appealed for sympathy from the rest of us for the top-end-of-town, who have to undergo psychological counselling because they are stressed out being wealthy. Apparently, they also have to engage in “stealth wealth” which means they “are hiding their wealth because they are concerned about negative judgment”. I immediately felt bad for them. Oh, the pain the top 1 per cent feel owning around 50 per cent of all the assets in the world! What a shocking plight they face. In the context of this week’s focus on Anti-Poverty, I couldn’t quite rouse the sympathy the story was seeking to elicit. Sorry!



When we talk about inequality it is important to differentiate between income and wealth inequality.

Together they constitute one of the clearest examples of how the neo-liberal policy structures that have been in place over the last 30 odd years are failing and are pushing the world toward an unsustainable reckoning where it is anybody’s guess what the manifestation will look like – but I predict it will be destructive and ugly and drawn out and may not resolve itself into anything we would like.

Income is a flow of cash that is received over time. For most of us, our incomes come from work. For some, it is the absence of work that generates income flow – as a result of wealth holdings.

Incomes are distributed in a skewed fashion with inequality rising.

High incomes which allow for high rates of saving tend to spawn growing stocks of wealth. The flow of saving feeds into the stock of wealth.

Low income earners tend to have low to zero saving ratios and hence never accumulate any wealth over their life time.

Wealth is a stock of owned assets (real and financial) which may or may not generate a flow of income. A person can be income rich and asset poor (say a young educated professional worker) or, conversely, asset rich and income poor (an older person who has retired or a wealthy person employing tax minimisation strategies.

Income inequality is typically much smaller than it is for wealth, which is why we have to consider both aspects.

Inequality matters. Why? First, it undermines the notion of a collective in society which is necessary for social sstablity and cohesion.

Second, rising inequality undermines the growth potential of a nation and introduces greater propensity to economic crisis.

Third, taken together, these factors tend to meant that nations will higher levels of income and wealth inequality endure more social violence and higher crime rates, higher rates of suicide, poorer mental and physical health standards, shorter life expectancies, and other pathologies.

Fourth, human potential is stifled in nations with higher inequality. Access to education, health and other services are improved when there is less inequality.

You may ask why? The answer lies in how the resources of the nation are made available to the people. Nations with high levels of income and wealth inequality have systems in place which restrict the capacity of a significant portion of the population to access the nation’s resources.

In this blog I am considering wealth inequality only.

The Credit Suisse – Global Wealth Report 2015 – is now in its 6th edition (first published in 2010).

I won’t discuss the methodology that they use to estimate wealth in each nation and its distribution but it is an heroic task.

The first point to note is that household wealth between 2014-15 fell in Africa (-10.3 per cent per adult), Asia-Pacific (-12 per cent per adult), Europe (-12.9 per cent per adult), India (-3.1 per cent per adult) and Latin America (-18.5 per cent per adult).

Household wealth rose only in China (+5.9 per cent per adult) and in North America (+3.2 per cent per adult).

These losses are largely due to exchange rate movements (against the US dollar) in the year. The Report says that “the underlying wealth trends have been generally positive, but the gains valued in domestic currencies have been more than offset by adverse exchange rate movements against the US dollar”.

Overall, despite the financial crisis which arguably was centred in the US and provoked by the poor and criminal behaviour of the American banking system (and its regulatory structures):

… the United States again led the world with a substantial rise in household wealth of USD 4.6 trillion. This continues a remarkable streak since the financial crisis, which has seen seven successive years of wealth gains and new record levels of household net worth for the past three years.

Further, financial assets are now increasingly “important” in determining a person’s total wealth and the gains in the last few years are driven by rising share prices

The following graph (reproduction of Figure 5 from the Wealth Report) shows the gains and losses by nation. The Report says that in terms of losses “only those exceeding 15% are displayed”.

Note the concentration of Eurozone nations among the loss nations.

But the really striking results emerge when we consider the distribution of wealth across individuals and wealth inequality.

1. “Once debts have been subtracted, a person needs only USD 3,210 to be among the wealthiest half of world citizens in mid-2015”.

2. “USD 68,800 is required to be a member of the top 10% of global wealth holders, and USD 759,900 to belong to the top 1%.”

3. “While the bottom half of adults collectively own less than 1% of total wealth, the richest decile holds 87.7% of assets, and the top percentile alone accounts for half of total household wealth.”

May I type that again in bold characters – the top percentile alone accounts for half of total household wealth.

I put together a time series of these trends from past data and incorporated it with the latest Global Wealth Report information.

The following graphs show the proportion of total wealth held by the top 10 per cent of the distribution (blue bars) and the top 1 per cent (red line) for the World, then Europe, then the US and finally China.

Wealth inequality is rising despite the GFC and there is an increasing concentration among the top 1 per cent. That pattern is noted in Europe and particularly China, but the top 1 per cent have seen a small decline in their share between 2014 and 2015 while the top 10 per cent gained share.

There has been a marked concentration of wealth at the top end of the distribution in Europe despite the prolonged crisis that has caused millions to lose their jobs.

When anyone wonders what all the austerity is about it pays to think of these distributional processes that have further cemented the power of the wealthy and expanded their opportunities to entrench their interests further.

When the IMF talks about ‘structural reforms’ I think about these distributional outcomes that result from the typical IMF programs that are inflicted on nations.

World Wealth Inequality



European Wealth Inequality



US Wealth Inequality



Chinese Wealth Inequality



Earlier this year, OXFAM released a briefing report on inequality (January 2015) – Wealth: Having it all and wanting more – which anticipated the trends reported in the recent Global Wealth Report 2015.

They produced the following graph (Figure 2 in their Report), which compares the top 1 per cent and the bottom 99 per cent of the global wealth distribution and extrapolated it out to 2020.

They actually underestimated the rate at which the top 1 per cent are accumulating wealth relative to the rest. They predicted that it would be 2016 before “the top 1% will have more wealth than the remaining 99% of people”. That outcome happened in 2015.

I updated the exercise given the latest wealth distribution estimates. If the current trends are maintained then the top 1 per cent will own around 58 per cent of the total global wealth by 2020.

Here is the graph.

OXFAM point out that in 2014 the wealth of the richest 80 people in the world “is now the same as that owned by the bottom 50% of the global population … 3.5 billion people”.

So how should we think about an economic system and its supporting polity that reallocates increasing share of wealth to fewer and fewer people.

Also do not forget that there must be income flows that reinforce this increasing wealth inequality.

Quite apart from the moral issues, there are two major and interlinked issues are: (a) economic; and (b) political.

OXFAM talk about the “morally questionable” nature of rising economic inequality. See – Working for the Few: Political capture and economic inequality – published January 20, 2014.

But even if you don’t buy into that value system, it is now clear that the trickle down claims made at the outset of the neo-liberal period are lies. Please read my blogs – Trickle down economics – the evidence is damning and Inequality and growth and well-being – revolutions have occurred for less – for more discussion on this point.

Rising economic inequality is bad for economic growth. It undermines the capacity for individuals to invest in education, which is the most reliable source of economic development (skill development).

In the 2014 paper, OXFAM also highlight the political ramifications. They say that:

In many countries, extreme economic inequality is worrying because of the pernicious impact that wealth concentrations can have on equal political representation. When wealth captures government policymaking, the rules bend to favor the rich, often to the detriment of everyone else. The consequences include the erosion of democratic governance, the pulling apart of social cohesion, and the vanishing of equal opportunities for all.

In its 2015 Report, OXFAM further note that the sectors which generate the largesse that goes to the most wealthy also spent “millions of dollars” lobbying governments to pressure them to introduce policy structures that perpetuate the inequality.

For example, the “financial sector is … the largest source of campaign contributions to federal candidates and parties”. Further, in 2013, “the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors spent more than … any other sector in the US” on lobbying. Similar trends occur in the EU.

During a period that the Ebola outbreak threatened a world crisis, pharmaceutical companies spent 6 times more on lobbying than on assistance to Ebola prevention.

OXFAM notes that the “largest increase in wealth between 2013 and 2014 by a single pharma-related billionaire could pay the entire” losses in output that the Ebola crisis will cause in “Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone”.

OXFAM also enlighten us on where this lobbying cash goes – mostly to manipulate government spending and tax changes which are designed to favour the donors.

They note that:

Lobbying on tax issues in particular can directly undermine public interests, where a reduction in the tax burden to companies results in less money for delivering essential public services.

Which is a statement that buys into the neo-liberal logic itself. The lobbyists come from sectors that lead the charge when it comes to berating governments about fiscal deficits and spending on income support for the most disadvantaged people in society etc.

But at the same time they are calling for welfare cuts to the poor, they are also manipulating governments to hand out as much public spending in the form of corporate welfare that goes largely into their own pockets.

It is an audacious hypocrisy that abounds. And the rest of are largely silent because we have bought the myth that regulation is bad, that welfare for the poor erodes incentives and all the rest of the nonsense.

I even read comments on my own blog from so-called progressives that it is outrageous and unfair to criticise politicians that aspire to national leadership who claim that fiscal deficits have to be cut and maintained in balance.

The deficit mania is part of the myth that free market allocations are the most efficient because they respond to the preferences of all consumers.

But it is obvious that a system of allocation that responds to spending will distort the allocations in favour of those who spend the most.

The market is driven by dollar votes. The more one spends the more power one has. So even at the most elementary level the concept of a free market is flawed. There is no such thing. It is preferences backed by cash rather than the latent desires that the market responds to, even in the abstract theoretical models.

But then once the inequality reality is overlaid onto that narrative and we recognise the massive spending that is designed to lobby for particular policy environments, which further distort the market allocations, we realise that the concept of the free market that is taught in economics programs throughout the world is a myth.

It is a convenient metaphor to give the impression that we all have a chance and the market will deliver outcomes according to our efforts.

Marx long ago recognised that crises occur when those that had overproduced were unable to access any of that production. Unemployment occurs when there is not enough spending to absorb the production (so output is overproduced relative to spending) and it also denies those who had been part of the productive output teams an income.

In the 1940s, Kalecki talked about the “captains of industry” who had a vested interest in opposing government policies aimed at creating full employment. Please read my blog – Michal Kalecki – The Political Aspects of Full Employment – for more discussion on this point.

Now these “captains” do not engage in much industry even. They dominate the financial sectors.

Remember the most obvious cases of Enron or the rating agencies being paid to give the top ratings to financial products that were never able to justify that sort of quality rating nor the conflict of interest being disclosed. Remember the shameless behaviour of Goldman Sachs deliberately conniving with the Greek government to deceive the European Commission during its transition into the common currency?

And the countless other examples of corruption that combined to create the GFC and its aftermath? We only know about the tip of the iceberg.

If the extrapolations that I produced in the last graph above then these levels of corruption and chaos will worsen.

One of the consequences of the rising inequality in income and wealth is that the bastion of social stability – the middle-class – is being eroded.

It is a trend that is occuring in all nations.

An April 2014 report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis – The Middle Class May Be Under More Pressure Than You Think – considered income inequality trends.

It found that once we consider “the characteristics of individual families in the middle class or how families with different characteristics fare over time” it becomes clear that income rankings along do not explain the full story of what has been happening in the US over the last 30 years.

To some extent it is the difference between what an economist chooses to focus on – “rankings of income or wealth” which are “relatively easy to measure” abnd what sociologists consider important – “demographic dimensions like race, education, occupation and status”.

Their study considers both.

They defined three types of households in the income distribution:

1. “Thrivers … Families likely to have income and wealth significantly above average in most years”.

2. “Middle class … Families likely to have income and wealth near average in most years”.

3. “Stragglers … Families likely to have income and wealth significantly below average in most years”.

Each of these groups have particular demographic characteristics, which define sets of characteristics which are associated with whether the family is persistently poor, average or rich.

They find that between 1989 and 2013, the median income of the middle class decreased by 16 per cent whereas for the other groups it rose by 2 per cent for thrivers and 8 per cent for stragglers.

The median wealth of thrivers was 22 per cent higher in 2013 compared to 1989 while the middle class lost 27 per cent and the stragglers 54 per cent of their wealth over the same time period.

The income of the median family ranked as ‘middle class’ in 1989:

… based on age, education and race or ethnicity ranked at about the 55th percentile of the overall distribution … by 2013 the median middle-class family had dropped to about the 45th percentile in the overall distribution.

The same family “was slightly worse in terms of wealth”.

The point is that the middle class is being eroded by the same changes that are driving these increased disparities in income and wealth.

Marx said that religion was the opiate of the masses. In the neo-liberal era it is mass consumption driven by credit. Both doping strategies are unsustainable especially when the latter also systematically undermines the prosperity of those that the system relies on for mass consumption.

I wrote about the OXFAM report when it was released in this blog – Rising inequality – fundamental changes required.

In that blog I outlined the sort of changes that would be required to redress the trend towards higher inequality.

In Australia, the inequality problem is getting worse.

ACOSS reports that (Source)

1. “The share of both income and wealth for to the highest group has risen while the share going to the

lowest (and in the case of wealth also the middle) groups has decreased over the past 20 years.”

2. “The wealth of the highest 20% wealth group increased by 28% over the period from 2004 to 2012. By comparison the wealth of the lowest increased by just 3%.”

3. “Over the 25 years to 2010, real wages increased by 50% on average, but by 14% for those on lower incomes (10th percentile), compared with 72% for those on higher incomes (90th percentile)”.

Conclusion

At some point, ‘we’ the people will fight back. It would be better if it was through the ballot box and we pushed out governments that were ‘pro business’ and elected governments that were keen to advance general public welfare initiatives.

But when so-called progressives support the socialist parties and labour-type parties that denounce so-called deficit deniers and when in power manage and implement pernicious austerity programs there is little hope in the foreseeable future of such enlightened politicians getting their hands on power.

Something ugly is the alternative and human history tells us that it happens.

I am thinking about these issues as I craft my presentation for the Wednesday event.

Video Promoting Anti-Poverty Week in Australia

Anti Poverty Week Event – Newcastle, NSW

There will be a special Anti Poverty Week event in Newcastle – Pushed to the Margins: Poverty in our Region – on Wednesday, October 21, 2015.

The event will take place between 17:30 and 19.30 at the Newcastle City Hall, 290 King St, Newcastle 2300.

ABC Lateline’s Emma Alberici will be hosting a panel of distinguished local and national speakers as they explore the realities of poverty and inequality in our community, its causes, impacts and how collectively we can bring change.

A conversation guaranteed to enlighten, engage and stimulate – A rare opportunity not to be missed!

Panelists include Dr John Falzon (CEO St Vincent de Paul), Professor Bill Mitchell (CofFEE), Dr Clare Hogue (HRF), Kelly Hansen (Nova), Jody Broun (NSW Executive Director, Red Cross) and Sue Cripps (CEO Homelessness NSW).

Organised by: Nova for Women and Children and the St Vincent de Paul Society

The event is free and you can register at http://pushedantipoverty.floktu.com/

That is enough for today!

(c) Copyright 2015 William Mitchell. All Rights Reserved.
====================
Man charged with exposing himself to 12-year-old girl

A 25-year-old man has been charged with exposing his genitals and making inappropriate remarks to a 12-year-old girl in the South Side Auburn Gresham neighborhood.

Stephon D. Williams is charged with a felony counts of indecent solicitation, and exploitation of a child under 13, according to Chicago Police.

Police said a man approached the girl just after 10 p.m. Friday in the 1200 block of West 79th Street, “exposed his genital area” and made an obscene remark.

Williams was found a short time later in the 8000 block of South Racine and was positively identified as the suspect, police said.

Williams, who lived a couple of blocks away from where the incident occurred, was ordered held on a $20,000 bond in court Sunday, according to Cook County sheriff’s records.

He qualified for electronic monitoring, but remained at the jail as of Monday morning, according to a spokeswoman for the sheriff’s office. He is next scheduled to appear in court Tuesday.
====================
Professional singer Alama Kante poses during a interview in Paris, June 16, 2014. REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer

PARIS (Reuters) - A professional singer said on Monday she sang through a throat surgery carried out under hypnosis in France to ensure that doctors did not harm her vocal cords.

Singer Alama Kante, 31, who is from Guinea and specializes in traditional African songs, revealed the operation more than two months after it took place in April, saying she was now fully healed.

“I remember (during surgery) this voice singing all the time, my voice going around in my head because I said to myself it is out of the question that I lose my voice,” Kante, who lives in France and is the niece of Guinean singer Mory Kante, told Reuters.

The procedure to remove her thyroid gland - whose cells had become enlarged and thus a cancer risk - was unorthodox. The operation is usually conducted under anaesthetic, with a tube inserted down the throat.

Recognizing that any damage to vocal cords and important nerves by the tube, and during the tumor extraction itself could truncate Kante’s singing range, Dr. Gilles Dhonneur opted for medical hypnosis to allow the patient to remain awake and able to respond during the procedure.

Dhonneur, head of anaesthesiology at the Henri-Mondor de Cretail Hospital outside Paris, has been perfecting the technique of medical hypnosis for two years.

“The pain of such an operation is unbearable if you’re conscious,” Dhonneur told Le Parisian daily. “Only medical hypnosis would allow someone to tolerate such an ordeal.”

Kante remembers the hypnotist telling her that the pain she felt was that of childbirth, and remembers the song lyrics she sang to help control it: “Fight, never give up...”

“There was a moment where I really felt pain ... and it passed, the pain passed and afterwards it was normal, as if I were in a dream,” said Kante.
====================
Photo

It must grate that, while Oracle and Salesforce.com compete in business software applications, Oracle can (and does) taunt Salesforce with the fact that its applications also rely on Oracle databases for their core functions. That matters, particularly now that Oracle is making direct forays into cloud computing.

It looks like Salesforce is doing something about that.

On Friday, Salesforce started looking for engineers skilled in an open source database called PostgreSQL. In a job posting, Salesforce says it needs five engineers now, and 40 to 50 more people next year, for “a huge PostgreSQL project” that would involve “implementing core technology that runs Salesforce.com.”

The recruiter listed on the job posting referred questions about the huge project to Salesforce’s communications department.

“We’re always evaluating/exploring different technologies,” Andrew Schmitt, a Salesforce spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We have a broad strategy when it comes to data persistence, which includes not only Oracle, but also Postgres, HBase, homegrown file storage, etc.”

He also noted that Heroku, a company bought by Salesforce that enables people to build software applications in the cloud, also uses databases at Amazon Web Services and offers access to Postgres.

Heroku uses cloud technologies that became popular long after Salesforce was established. That is why Salesforce bought Heroku for $212 million last year. Heroku operates separately from Salesforce’s technology. If Salesforce builds a Postgres database that integrates their two services, Salesforce could have a bigger presence in constructing and modifying applications running on its servers.

Much as Salesforce might like to move off Oracle altogether, for cost as much as bragging rights, completely junking Oracle is probably not an option anytime soon. It is not clear that Postgres could operate at anything like the scale of Salesforce. Even if it could, Salesforce would have to spend a lot of time assuring customers that their data would not be affected. Given the marketing zeal of Salesforce, in fact, it would probably make a case that life was becoming even more fabulous.
====================
Patricia Jannuzzi's Facebook comments, and church officials reaction to them, sparked furor on both sides.

Immaculata High School ordered a teacher to permanently disable her Facebook account after she posted an anti-gay rant in March. (Photo: ~File)

The Catholic school teacher at the center of a controversy over remarks she made on her Facebook page about gays and homosexuality has returned to her job after being suspended last month.

In a letter shared with faculty and staff, Monsignor Seamus Brennan, the pastor of the Church of the Immaculate Conception, said Patricia Jannuzzi would return to her job at Immaculata High School citing her "otherwise good reputation as an educator over her 30 years."

Jannuzzi was asked to disable her Facebook page and was placed on administrative leave after MyCentralJersey.com, and then other media outlets, reported on the outrage that her anti-gay comments had stirred among alumni, who felt it was innapropriate for a teacher of young students to demonstrate intolerance.

Immaculata graduate Scott Lyons helped draw attention to Jannuzzi's statements by writing her an open letter, which his aunt, actress Susan Sarandon, shared with her thousands of fans on Facebook.

After school officials and Diocese of Metuchen Bishop Paul Bootkoski distanced themselves from Jannuzzi's remarks, the Diocese got backlash from conservatives and traditionalists upset that the school and church did not side with their teacher against a liberal Hollywood activist.

Jannuzzi's family, fearing she would lose her job, raised more than $31,000 online. After Booktkoski issued a statement that Jannuzzi continued to receive salary and benefits and that no longterm decision over her job had been made, the Catholic leader was slammed on two radio ads broadcast on New York radio state WOR-AM and accused of trying to cover up Jannuzzi's firing.

In a statement posted on the fundraising page, Jannuzzi's attorney David Oakley said all of the contributions would be returned.

In an interview with MyCentralJersey.com, Oakley said Jannuzzi was "very happy" with the turn of events.

"I'm delighted with the understanding," he said Friday. "We're grateful to the school for engaging in the process."

Among the comments that got Jannuzzi in trouble was a post saying gays were behind an "agenda" to "reengineer western civ into a slow extinction." In other posts, she compared a lesbian relationship to news of Egyptian men being beheaded and said by "secular materialists [are] making our country so weak we cannot fight the dictatorship of Militant Islam."

In his letter Friday, Brennan reiterated the "school's position that a Catholic school teacher must always communicate the faith in a way that is positive and never hurtful."

"Tone and choice of words matter and I trust Mrs. Jannuzzi's stated promise to strive always to teach in a spirit of truth and charity."

"From the beginning this was a personnel and not a theological issue," he continues. "We are now and always have been united in our understanding and commitment to the teachings of the Catholic Church."

In the letter, Principal Jean Kline laments the "unfortunate media attention the last few weeks has been a distraction for many of us" and asks faculty to "abide by the legal constraints and limit any discussion of this issue."

Here's the full letter. Story continues below.

Michael Hichborn, president of Lepanto Institute, the conservative Catholic group that paid for the radio ads, said Friday he was suprised by the news.

"That's excellent. It was a great injustice and thank God that the right outcome came about," he said. "If they changed their mind I hope it is for a matter of justice and not for a matter of looking to see which way the wind is blowing."

The almuni petition on Change.org was closed by the organizer with 1,188 signatures. In a message, organizer Tom Robinson declared victory.

"As a result of the petition, Immaculata High School acknowledged the problem and decided to review their social media policy. Due to the media firestorm that occurred, the teacher was put on administrative leave," he said.

"We have taken a stand and brought attention to an important subject: Intolerance should not be acceptable in a public forum, especially not by a teacher who could be alienating children at the school."

The Patricia Jannuzzi story: How it went down

-- In March, Jannuzzi posts this message to her personal Facebook page.

-- The post, and others, are read by her former students. Scott Lyons writes Jannuzzi an open message. It's shared by his aunt, Susan Sarandon on her Facebook page.

-- Another alumni, Greg Bennett, who used to appear on "Real Housewives of New Jersey," puts his former teacher on blast and urges others to sign the alumni petition.

FLASHBACK: Celebs slam Immaculata High School teacher's anti-gay Facebook post

-- Two days later, Jannuzzi is suspended: Immaculata suspends teacher for anti-gay Facebook rant

Here's the school's statement on March 13:

-- Her sons set up a fundraising page in order to raise as much as $100,000, suggesting that she may not be asked to return in the fall. But Bishop Bootkoski says that's not true, and calls Jannuzzi's comments "disturbing," to boot.

-- The school and bishop's reactions create a new controversy among conservatives and traditionalists.

FLASHBACK: Catholic officials accused of coverup over Immaculata teacher's anti-gay posts

-- Two radio ads blast the bishop. Here's the first:

-- The story leads to a lot of discussion online. A Catholic priest in the Archdiocese of Newark pens an open letter to Sarandon: "You support your friends and don't mind harming your perceived enemies, as is natural if not exactly Christlike."

And Scott Lyons responded: "All teachers, including Catholic school educators, should focus on building an inclusive educational environment where young people are encouraged to be compassionate and loving human beings by teachers who lead by example."

-- On April 10, a month after this all started, Immaculata says Jannuzzi is back on the job and the Jannuzzi family returns its contributions.

Read or Share this story: http://mycj.co/1yjaP4K
====================
Dear Fellow RPG fans,

Thank you guys for supporting my work and spreading it out through the multiverse. I am glad it has gotten enough attention to have finally garnered a cease order from Wizards of the Coast.

Unfortunately, I would not like to make any real legal trouble to myself, so I have taken down the spellbook generator as it is. I will be providing (give me a week or so) the code as open source, not including any database with the spell information. If at any time, the Wizards decides to release an OGL for 5e, I will be more than happy to bring this back online.

I am really touched by how many people have sent me inquiries already about the spellbook generator. If you guys would like to continue to support the right and need for players to have tools such as this, feel free to email Wizards of the Coast and voice your concerns! As a DM and a player I wanted a tool in which to help my group out and together, a ton of you guys came and made that dream come true. As much as I understand why I was served a cease order, I am also saddened at the need for it. This generator did not help you play the game at all, it just made it so that you as a player could easily go through the beautiful content Wizards has provided. You still needed a PHB to play, so you've already given Wizards your money.

Good luck to all you gamers out there. This will not be the last you have heard of the spellbook generator! For other resources, feel free to check the about page. Use them until Wizards takes them down too!

Proudly,Philip Vuong

*UPDATE* - Open source code available here.

NOTE TO WIZARDS - I am only open sourcing the code that I have written and own. I will not be distributing any underlying database or datasource containing the spell information to populate the application.
====================
Production of hydrogen and organic compounds by an electrosynthetic microbiome using electrodes and carbon dioxide as sole electron donor and carbon source, respectively, was examined after exposure to acidic pH (∼5). Hydrogen production by biocathodes poised at −600 mV vs. SHE increased>100-fold and acetate production ceased at acidic pH, but ∼5–15 mM (catholyte volume)/day acetate and>1,000 mM/day hydrogen were attained at pH ∼6.5 following repeated exposure to acidic pH. Cyclic voltammetry revealed a 250 mV decrease in hydrogen overpotential and a maximum current density of 12.2 mA/cm 2 at −765 mV (0.065 mA/cm 2 sterile control at −800 mV) by the Acetobacterium-dominated community. Supplying −800 mV to the microbiome after repeated exposure to acidic pH resulted in up to 2.6 kg/m 3 /day hydrogen (≈2.6 gallons gasoline equivalent), 0.7 kg/m 3 /day formate, and 3.1 kg/m 3 /day acetate ( = 4.7 kg CO 2 captured).

Data Availability: The authors confirm that all data underlying the findings are fully available without restriction. The sequence data referred to in the manuscript are now freely available to the public on MG-RAST under Project Electrohydrogenesis Microbiomes: Reactor 4electrode (4562455.3) and Reactor 4supernatant (4562456.3). Additional data files are available in the Supporting Information.

Electrosynthesis of acetate and other short-chain fatty acids from CO 2 has been examined with media (catholyte) buffered at near neutral pH [1] – [6] , and an electrosynthetic microbiome was maintained in batch with a cathode poised at −590 mV vs. SHE [1] , [2] . Regular exchanges of the catholyte under a constant supply of CO 2 will maintain the pH close to neutrality and thereby support acetogenesis [1] , [2] . However, little is known about the response of the electrosynthetic microbiome to acidic pH. Here we show that lower pH results in a dramatic increase in H 2 production by the microbiome, which has implications for H 2 and organic acid production. This extends our understanding of how these microbiomes perform electrosynthesis, and suggests a platform for the electrosynthetic production of fuels and chemicals [13] – [16] .

This nascent technology may prove to be more efficient than photosynthetic biomass-based fuel and chemical production in a number of ways. Microbial electrosynthesis is projected to utilize less water and land resources than photosynthetic-based processes, as well as less auxiliary energy inputs such as biomass collection and preprocessing [9] . The electron recovery or coulombic efficiency for total products of microbial electrosynthesis has exceeded 80% [2] , [3] . If the process were to receive electrical energy from solar panels (conversion efficiencies ∼20%) then it would best the solar conversion by photosynthetic C4 plants (∼1% in practice, near 6% under optimal conditions); making microbial electrosynthesis an attractive solution for carbon capture and chemical production [10] . Anaerobic acetogens thus far are associated with or capable of performing electrosynthesis, and their metabolism may contribute to the observed efficiency. For example, anaerobic processes have the potential to divert more electrons and carbon into the product (>90%) than aerobic processes (<10%), as well as reducing the exposure to degradative and toxic reactive oxygen species [11] . The ancient carbon fixing pathway of acetogens, the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, is more efficient than other carbon fixation pathways, requiring only 8 enzymes, less than one mole of ATP and just over 4 moles of hydrogen per mole of acetyl-CoA produced [12] . The efficient catalysis of carbon-carbon bond formation under ambient conditions makes this an attractive carbon fixation pathway to transform electrons into chemicals, fuels, and polymers at high yields.

The ability to capture carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) from waste streams and convert it into value added chemicals and fuels has attracted increasing interest due to concerns over fossil fuel supply, price, and climate change. Microbial electrosynthesis is a process by which microbes grow as a biocathode and couple electrical energy to the capture and conversion of CO 2 into compounds such as methane or organic acids [1] – [8] . Ideally the electrical energy would be renewable and sustainable, but it may come from the existing grid during off-peak hours to recover otherwise lost fossil-based energy. Depending on the source of electricity and how the upgraded carbon product is used, the process would then be carbon neutral or negative.

Reactor 4 was analyzed for microbial composition at 5 months after inoculation. Electrode attached cells were sampled by collecting graphite granules while planktonic cells were collected by filtering supernatant through a Sterivex filter (Millipore). Both samples were stored in Soil Preservation Solution (MoBio Laboratories) at −80°C. DNA from electrode-attached cells was extracted using a PowerSoil DNA Isolation Kit (MoBio Laboratories). DNA from planktonic cells was extracted using PowerWater Sterivex DNA Isolation Kit (MoBio Laboratories). Primers amplifying the V4 region (F515/R806) of 16S ribosomal sequence was amplified using Golay barcoded primers [17] , and sequenced on the MiSeq platform (Illumina). 16S analysis was completed with the QIIME v1.7 toolkit. All extraction, amplification, and sequencing methods followed the standards of the Earth Microbiome Project ( [18] , http://www.earthmicrobiome.org/ ). Sequences are publicly available under the MG-RAST IDs: Reactor 4 electrode 4562455.3, and Reactor 4 supernatant 4562456.3 ( [19] , http://metagenomics.anl.gov/ ).

Samples for SEM were incubated in a 0.1 M sodium cacodylate buffer with 2% gluteraldehyde for 3 hours, then incubated in a 2.5% osmium tetroxide, and finally dehydrated with an ethanol dilution series using 0%, 25%, 50%, 75%, % and 100% at 5 minute intervals. Samples were stored in a desiccator before being sputtered with Au and Pd using a Denton Vacuum sputter coater. Images were mounted on a stage with conductive carbon tape and imaged using a JEOL JSM-5600LV Scanning Electron Microscope.

Aliquots of media were filtered and analyzed for pH using a pH meter (Mettler-Toledo) and fatty acid content via HPLC (Shimadzu) using the method described in Marshall et al. [2] . A 100 µL glass syringe (Hamilton) was used to sample headspace gas composition via gas chromatography (HP) using the method reported in Marshall et al. [2] . Gas production rate was calculated from the partial pressure and flow rate measured using a flow meter (J&W Scientific). Note that for sparging experiments, hydrogen production is reported as mM/day, while for sealed headspace tests hydrogen accumulation is reported as mM. Maximum production rates refer to within the time course of one batch between media exchanges.

Reactors were customized three-electrode, two-chamber glass cells (ChemGlass) separated by a 2 cm 2 CMI-7000 cation exchange membrane (Membranes International). A total of 25 grams of graphite granules (Showa Denko) were used in each chamber for the anode and cathode. A 0.95 cm outer diameter fine extruded graphite rod (Graphite Store) was cut into 3 cm long current collectors wound with 0.81 mm diameter titanium wire (Sigma Aldrich). All carbon electrodes were pretreated by washing in acetone and drying, followed by immersion in 1 M NaOH, and 1 M HCl for 24 hours each with deionized water rinses between each step. Reference electrodes were made with a 1 mm diameter AgCl coated silver wire (SurePure Metals) immersed in 4 mm glass capillary tube (ChemGlass) containing 3 M KCl saturated with Ag/AgCl and to which a Vycor tip (Koslow) was attached using Teflon heat-shrink tape (BASi). The reference electrodes were immersed in a 7 mm diameter Luggin capillary containing 1 M KCl. The cathode and anode chambers were each filled with 50 mL of media. Reactors were poised at −600 mV vs. the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) unless indicated otherwise. Chronoamperometry and cyclic voltammetry were recorded using a VMP3 potentiostat and EC-Lab Software (Bio-Logic Science Instruments). Voltammetric sweeps ranged from −800 to 0 mV vs. SHE at 1 mV/sec. Reactors were sparged with 100% carbon dioxide at 15 mL/min, except in graphite rod cathode yield tests. Another larger customized reactor (Adams & Chittenden) was designed with a 20 cm 2 cation exchange membrane. The anode and cathode chambers each contained 100 g graphite granules and 100 mL of phosphate buffered media. This reactor was used to test the biocathodes at potentials lower than −600 mV vs. SHE. A total of 10 reactors were examined and the inoculation scheme is depicted in Fig. S1 .

An electrosynthetic microbiome enriched from brewery wastewater obtained from Palmetto Brewery (Charleston, SC) was used in this study [2] . A phosphate-buffered medium was made using 10.71 g/L dipotassium hydrogen phosphate, 5.24 g/L potassium dihydrogen phosphate, 0.25 g/L ammonium chloride, 0.6 g/L sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, 0.1 g/L potassium chloride, 0.212 g/L magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 30.4 mg/L calcium chloride dihydrate, and the same mineral and vitamin concentrations reported in Marshall et al. [2] . A bicarbonate-buffered medium was obtained by replacing the potassium phosphate buffer system with 2.5 g/L sodium bicarbonate. Where noted, 50 mM of sodium bromoethanesulfonate was used as a methanogenic inhibitor, or replaced with 50 mM sodium chloride.

Results and Discussion

Response of the microbiome to a reduction in pH An acetogenic/methanogenic microbiome [2] was used to inoculate the cathode of three reactors (#1–3) with cathodes poised at −600 mV vs. SHE. Data from Reactor 1 are presented in Fig. 1 (data for the replicates are in Fig. S2). Graphite granules (25 g) from an existing biocathode were transferred to each of the new reactors supplied with bicarbonate buffered catholyte (∼pH 6.4) plus 50 mM sodium bromoethanesulfonate (NaBES) to inhibit methanogenesis. Acetate was produced from the start and continued until the pH neared 5, which is consistent with how acetogens respond to low pH [20]. Hydrogen production among the three reactors was more variable, but increased as the pH decreased and eventually reached 343 ± 25 mM/day in each reactor. Similar hydrogen production rates (343 ± 71 mM/day) but with higher rates of acetogenesis (9.7 ± 1.5 vs. 5 ± 1.8 mM/day) were obtained when the medium was replaced using 50 mM NaCl substituted for the 50 mM NaBES. Methane was not detected over 24 days in Reactors 1 & 2 when NaCl was substituted for NaBES, but methane in Reactor 3 appeared after 11 days and averaged 7.3 mM/day over the remainder of the experiment when the pH had dropped below 5 and acetogenesis had ceased. PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Figure 1. Increased hydrogen rates at acidic pH. Production of hydrogen, acetate, and formate by the electrosynthetic microbiome as pH decreases in the graphite granule biocathode of Reactor 1 poised at −600 mV vs. SHE in a bicarbonate buffer with NaBES (A), and subsequent media replacement with NaCl (B). https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.g001 The combination of low pH and high partial pressure of hydrogen sans NaBES can, in certain cases, mitigate the competitive advantage of the favorable thermodynamics and H 2 scavenging ability of methanogens due to the commensurate kinetics of H 2 utilization between some acetogens and methanogens [21]–[23]. With the caveat that it is strain specific, certain Acetobacterium spp. have been reported to outcompete certain methanogens when H 2 is not limiting [24]. Additionally, methane production has remained non-existent or only as a minor product in microbiomes that produce carboxylic acids at pH near 5.5 [25], a pH achieved in this study. Other successful methods to minimize methanogenesis vs. acetogenesis include incubation at psychrotolerant temperatures [24] or brief treatment at higher temperatures before returning to the process temperature of the desired product [25]. The reduction in methanogenesis (none detected in several tests here) in the experiments performed without NaBES described above and some below indicate that it may be possible to specifically select for hydrogen and acetate production in the bioelectrochemical reactor. However, NaBES was used in many, but not all, experiments from hereon as a precaution against methanogenesis. Continual addition of NaBES will not be practical for the industrial implementation of microbial electrosynthesis, but the alternative methods discussed above certainly warrant further investigation to control methanogenesis [14], [21], [25]. In addition, a more conductive potassium phosphate buffered medium sparged with CO 2 was used to lower the electrolyte resistance and maintain the cathode potential at a lower overall applied voltage, and avoid the bicarbonate buffer that is more supportive of methanogenesis. The first test with this medium was done with Reactors 4–6 (Fig. S3). Reactor 4 was inoculated from the same source used for Reactors 1–3 and Reactors 5 & 6 were inoculated from Reactor 4. In general, the response to pH and production of hydrogen and acetate was similar in this phosphate-buffered medium. Hydrogen production reached 283 ± 87.7 mM/day. Acetate in the inoculum was transferred to Reactor 4 and the rate of acetogenesis reached only ∼ 5 mM/day, but the rate was higher in Reactors 5 and 6 (12.6 and 15.3 mM/day). Formate was detected in both buffering systems, but its accumulation was varied and it is assumed to be a transient intermediate of acetate production. Sterile abiotic controls in the phosphate buffered medium produced only 0.08 and 0.49 mM/day hydrogen at pH 6.5 and 4.5, respectively, over a 4-day test in sealed reactors (Fig S4). Hydrogen was not detected when the abiotic test was repeated with the catholyte sparged with 100% CO 2 at 15 ml/min. The experiments described above were done with a salt gradient between the anode and cathode chambers of the electrochemical reactor (50 mM NaBES or 50 mM NaCl added to the cathode). This likely contributed to the pH change since without the gradient>100 mM acetic acid was needed to lower the pH significantly compared to the lowering of pH by only 30 mM acetate with the gradient. In order to determine if the response of the microbiome was due to the change in pH only, two reactors with active acetogenic microbiomes (Reactors 4 and 5) received fresh media and 50 mM NaBES added to the anode and cathode chambers. (Experiments from this point forward were always done in a phosphate buffered medium with the sodium ion concentration equal across the electrochemical cell.) Acetate was produced early in the experiment (13–19 mM/day) while hydrogen production settled below 25 mM/day and the pH stayed between 6.5 and 7 (Fig. 2). Each cathode then received titrations of HCl to lower the pH to <5 at which point acetate production ceased and hydrogen production rose to 300–500 mM per day. Formate concentration in the cathode also increased from nearly non-detectable levels to over 5 mM. The titration of NaOH raised the pH, partially restored acetate production, and slowed the production of hydrogen to less than 50 mM/day. These results are consistent with the previous experiments in that a decrease in pH is the primary cause of increased electrohydrogenesis rates in these microbiomes. This is also consistent with previous studies examining the impact of acidic pH on acetogenesis and fermentative hydrogen production [20], [26], [27]. PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Figure 2. Effect of titration on production. Response of the electrosynthetic microbiome to the addition of HCl to reduce the pH, followed by titration with NaOH to re-establish near neutral pH. Reactors 4 and 5 were poised at −600 mV vs. SHE in a phosphate buffered medium with NaBES present in catholyte and anolyte. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.g002

Yield and rate test with graphite rod electrodes Three graphite rods (10 cm2 surface area) were incubated in the graphite-granule bed cathode of Reactor 4 for 48 days and exposed to 5 medium exchanges and cycles of acidic pH (<5). The rods were then transferred to serve as a defined surface area biocathode without graphite granules in three independent reactors (Reactors 7–9) with 50 ml of phosphate buffered medium plus 50 mM NaCl substituted for NaBES in each chamber. A CV analysis was performed on all of the biocathodes after their transfer to the new reactors while the catholyte was sparged with 100% CO 2 and the pH set near neutrality (Fig. 3A). All three biocathodes exhibited a discernible current with a potential below −500 mV vs. SHE, but they diverged as the potential was lowered further. The sweep was extended to −800 mV where the current density for two of the biocathodes reached 2.6 and 6.0 mA/cm2. The current density of the third reached 12.2 mA/cm2 at −765 mV and could not accept a lower potential due to the total applied voltage limit of the potentiostat. The differences in maximal current density may have been due to unequal microbial diversity/colonization of the three electrodes, but the overpotential for hydrogen formation on abiotic graphite electrodes was reduced by at least 250 mV with each biocathode. A sterile control with a graphite rod did not exhibit an appreciable cathodic current until the potential was below −600 mV, with a maximum current of 0.065 mA/cm2 at −800 mV (Fig. 3A inset). Moreover, when an active rod biocathode was exposed to oxygen (sterile air at 40 mL/min) for 20 hours, the current density decreased from 1.15 to 0.19 mA/cm2 at −800 mV (Fig S5). Autoclaving of the air-inactivated rod decreased the current density slightly more to 0.15 m mA/cm2 at −800 mV. Intriguingly, this small amount of remaining current (but no organic acid production) suggests that the dead microbiome might have left a redox-active species adsorbed to the cathode. Further examination of the mechanisms of how the electron transfer occurs within the biocathode is beyond the scope of this study, but the results indicate that a living and intact microbiome is necessary for the development of high current and organic acid production by these biocathodes. PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Figure 3. Yield and rate test. 3 graphite rod biocathodes in phosphate buffered media with NaCl. A) Cyclic voltammetry at 1 mV/sec under constant CO 2 sparging of Reactor 7 (red), Reactor 8 (green), Reactor 9 (blue) abiotic (black). Inset: magnification of the abiotic control. Yield tests data at −600 mV vs. SHE for B–D collected with sealed reactors (no sparging, 100% CO 2 in headspace): B) current density (solid) and pH (dashed), C) hydrogen (thick solid), acetate (thin open), and formate (solid inset), D) Coulombic efficiencies for acetate (green), hydrogen (black) and total (black dotted) with standard deviation bars. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.g003 Immediately following the CV analysis, the biocathodes were placed under 1 atm of 100% CO 2 , sealed, and poised at −600 mV vs. SHE. Productivity for two of the three biocathodes (Reactors 8 & 9) was similar over a 4-day test, but the cathode that generated the least current in the CV analysis (Reactor 7) performed poorly in relation to the others (Figs. 3B & 3C). Although acetate production was detected during day 1 of the yield test, the accumulation of hydrogen was much higher (Fig. 3C). A small amount of formate peaked with each biocathode on day 2 (Fig. 3C inset). Maximal production rates normalized to the surface area of the electrodes are presented in Table 1. A strong cathodic current discharge was exhibited by the more robust biocathodes at time zero, and each of these then generated a current of>100 µA/cm2 over the next 4 days (Fig. 3C). Reactor 7 did not show such an initial discharge and the current remained near 40 µA/cm2 until after day 3 when it began to accelerate, perhaps indicating the onset of growth on the electrode. By day 4, the three biocathodes were generating 92.0 ± 11.8 µA/cm2 and the experiment was terminated to measure biomass (protein) on the electrodes. Protein densities were comparable at this time (14.3 ± 0.9 µg/cm2) and the average current density to protein for the three biocathodes was of 6.5 ± 1.2 A/g. The coulombic efficiency for each reactor was similar with nearly 90% to hydrogen early on and over 40% to acetate at the end of the experiment (Fig. 3D). Overall coulombic efficiency was maximal at day 1 (94% ± 3%) and somewhat decreased by day 4 (77% ± 9.8%), with perhaps the remainder of the electrons captured as biomass. No methane was detected in any of the sealed reactors despite the lack of NaBES in the medium. PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Table 1. Maximum productivity of graphite rod biocathodes poised at −600 mV vs. SHE normalized to surface area. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.t001

Further increases in hydrogen and acetate production Following multiple replacements of the catholyte and repeated exposure of the microbiome to acidic pH, it became apparent that hydrogen production would remain relatively high even at near neutral pH. This was first observed with Reactor 4 after 6 medium exchanges and low pH cycles with the cathode always poised at −600 mV vs. SHE (Fig. 4). Hydrogen was produced at>1000 mM/day even though the pH never dropped below 6.5 in that experiment. Subsequent transfers of the microbiome continued to exhibit high hydrogen production. This suggested that the microbial population on the granules had adapted/grown to produce more hydrogen regardless of the operating pH as long as at one point in the microbiome's development the community was exposed to acidic pH. At this time, the electrode granule and planktonic communities of Reactor 4 were sampled for phylogenetic analysis (see below). PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Figure 4. Sustained hydrogen production at higher pH after enrichment. Reactor 4 at −600 mV vs. SHE in phosphate buffered media with NaBES in the anolyte and catholyte. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.g004 With these comparatively high levels of productivity and current density, it was not possible to examine the biocathode when poised at a lower potential due to the total applied voltage limitation of the potentiostat. To address this, a different type of reactor (Reactor 10) with a larger membrane and working volume (100 mL) was inoculated with granules from Reactor 4. Relieving the membrane limitation allowed the reactor to be operated at −800 mV vs. SHE. Under these conditions, high hydrogen and organic acid production was achieved as the pH decreased (Fig. 5). The hydrogen production rate was ∼1250 mM/day and formate production was 4.5 mM/day immediately at the start of this experiment; both results were to be expected with an inoculum of populated granules from a reactor that was producing high amounts of hydrogen and acetate. Over the first two days, the detected hydrogen production rate decreased while acetate accumulation increased only modestly. The pH then began to decrease sharply as both hydrogen and acetate production increased concomitantly. Acetate production reached a maximum rate of 51.6 mM/day and ceased when the pH dropped below ∼5.5. At the lower pH, the hydrogen production rate exceeded 1300 mM/day. Following two more cycles of medium replacement, high hydrogen rates persisted along with 16.9 mM/day formate and 28.7 mM/day acetate. The potential of the cathode was modulated to avoid exceeding the current limit of the potentiostat. Acetate and hydrogen production remained high with the cathode poised at −750 mV (>1000 mM/day hydrogen and a maximum rate of 51.9 mM/day acetate)(Fig. S6). A table summarizing the conditions and maximum productivities of all reactors is available in the Table S1. PPT PowerPoint slide

PowerPoint slide PNG larger image

larger image TIFF original image Download: Figure 5. Increased rates at lower potential. Increased acetate and hydrogen production of the microbiome in the larger Reactor 10 poised at −800 mV vs. SHE in phosphate buffered media with NaBES in the anolyte and catholyte. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109935.g005 Acetobacterium woodii has been shown to produce a maximum of 123 mM/day acetate when incubated under a partial hydrogen pressure of 1700 mbar [27]. This was the fastest rate of autotrophic acetogenesis reported until the same group demonstrated that A. woodii would produce 421 mM/day in a nutrient enriched medium stirred at 1200 rpm under 40% hydrogen [28]. The authors also genetically transformed A. woodii to overexpress phosphotransacetylase and acetate kinase or the four THF dependent enzymes of the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway in order to overcome carbon flux bottlenecks. These mutants produced acetate at 480 mM/day in the same medium and conditions. The current densities and product formation by the electrosynthetic microbiota from the current study indicate that electron flux from an electrode to a microbial community is similar to these rates of hydrogenotrophic acetogenesis, albeit without the energy required to pressurize or stir the reactor. For example, the electrosynthetic microbiome has produced>50 mM/day acetate, while an additional 325 mM/day could potentially be generated based on the electron equivalents for maximum hydrogen production rates observed using the system.
====================
FILE PHOTO: An aerial view of Doha's diplomatic area March 21, 2013. REUTERS/Fadi Al-Assaad/File Photo

DUBAI (Reuters) - Qatar’s consumer price deflation deepened in September as a downturn in the real estate market deepened because of economic sanctions imposed by other Arab states, official data showed on Saturday.

Consumer prices fell 0.5 percent from a year earlier last month, after a 0.4 percent drop in August that was the first fall since at least early 2015, when the current data series began.

Housing and utility prices sank 4.7 percent from a year ago in September, their biggest drop for at least several years, and fell 0.7 percent from the previous month. In August, prices had slipped 4.0 percent from a year earlier.

Housing prices were already in a downtrend before June, when Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut diplomatic and transport ties with Qatar, accusing it of supporting terrorism.

But the sanctions have contributed to the slide by hurting investor sentiment, stifling demand among nationals from other Gulf states, and tightening liquidity in the banking system.

Food and beverage prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier in September.
====================
The bands the players collected on Monday are the latest version of those the team first tried in 2011 but had to stop using last season after the players’ union raised concerns about the intrusiveness of a device used outside games and practices. In July, the league and players settled their differences and allowed the bands if the teams received the union’s approval.

About 40 Seattle players now wear the monitors, up from 20 a few years ago.

Ramsden and his staff have used the bands as a tool to find out why a player might be sleeping poorly. In many cases, the reason is obvious: a baby that kept a player up all night, for example.

But Ramsden has also referred chronic light sleepers to doctors who have discovered that the players have had conditions such as sleep apnea, a serious disorder that can cause a range of heart and brain problems. And if many players were running short on sleep, he suggested that the coaches trim a practice or adjust the team’s travel schedule.

The devices used by the Seahawks, called Readibands, are made by a Canadian company called Fatigue Science and include motion sensors that calculate how long and how deeply the players have slept. Another algorithm, developed by the American military and others, converts the sleep data into a number correlated to the player’s alertness.

The wristbands send the data to the players’ smartphones, allowing them to monitor their sleep better and make adjustments on their own.

A player with a score of around 90 on the 100-point scale has about a 10 percent reduction in alertness — nothing serious. A player with a score of 70, by contrast, will have a 43 percent reduction in reaction time — a significant impairment to his performance.

“It’s not enough to know how much or how well you are sleeping, but to understand the relationship between sleep and performance,” said Jacob Fiedler, a sales director at Fatigue Science, which works with about 40 sports teams around the world as well as miners, train engineers and other workers who need to stay alert on the job for long periods. “If the timing of my sleep is inconsistent, we’ll pay a health price, a safety price, a performance price.”
====================
Showtime revealed the cast members of David Lynch’s upcoming “Twin Peaks” revival series — all 217 of them.

Among the original actors set to return are David Duchovny, Alicia Witt, David Patrick Kelly and Harry Dean Stanton. Series lead Kyle MacLachlan had already been announced as coming back for the new series.

New cast members include Monica Bellucci, Jim Belushi, Jeremy Davies, Laura Dern, Hailey Gates, Balthazar Getty, Ernie Hudson, Ashley Judd, David Koechner, Matthew Lillard, Trent Reznor, Tim Roth, Amanda Seyfried, Tom Sizemore, Jessica Szohr, Eddie Vedder and Naomi Watts.

Original cast members not featured on cast list include Lara Flynn Boyle and Piper Laurie.

Showtime’s “Twin Peaks” will pick up decades after the original series, which ran for two seasons on ABC and ended in 1991. Lynch and Mark Frost will write and executive produce the new series, with Lynch set to direct all the episodes. The new series, which recently wrapped principal photography, will premiere in 2017.

The series has been in production since late 2014, and was nearly scuttled last year when Lynch appeared to walk away from it. Showtime and the director resolved their differences, but an original release target of 2016 ended up being pushed.

Check out the entire cast below.
====================
The Texas Rangers are looking to acquire a veteran pitcher to start for the team Tuesday, reports Gerry Fraley of the Dallas Morning News.

Alexi Ogando was scheduled to pitch Monday against the Houston Astros, but received an anti-inflammatory injection in his right shoulder and will skip at least one start. Matt Garza moved his start up one day to replace Ogando, leaving the Rangers without a starter on Tuesday.

More Rangers: Texas pitchers in the second half

Texas would prefer to trade for a starter, according to Fraley. At least two veteran pitchers have cleared waivers: Astros starter Erik Bedard and Nationals starter Dan Haren. Bedard is 3-9 on the season with a 4.49 ERA, while Haren is 7-11 with a 4.79 ERA.

If the Rangers cannot reach a deal for a starter, the team will promote Travis Blackley from Triple-A Round Rock. Blackley will pair up with long reliever Ross Wolf to give the team a spot start.

More from SB Nation MLB:

• Neyer: When Ryan Dempster made us like A-Rod

• Bosch's attorney rejected payment from A-Rod

• Miguel Tejada suspended 105 games for failed drug tests

• Gauging the Jose Dariel Abreu market

• Longform: The death of a ballplayer
====================
A note from P Chidambaram to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh dated 15 January 2008 - exactly five days after Andimuthu Raja made his controversial award of 122 new telecom licences -seems to suggest that the two, willy-nilly, accepted Raja's decision as a given and did not question his decision to keep entry fees and spectrum charges at 2001 levels.

Chidambaram's 15 January "Note on spectrum charges" to Manmohan Singh says that "the past may be treated as a closed chapter..." and, instead, recommended the allocation of additional spectrum through auction in future, as this "method of auction will face the least legal challenge." Those who already held additional spectrum above the start-up spectrum would pay for it through auction-determined prices.

The reference to "legal challenge" implies that Chidambaran knew Raja's method of giving licences and spectrum could face legal hurdles, but he still preferred to treat it as a "closed chapter".

The 15 January note of Chidambaram, who was finance minister at the time, was obtained by Firstpost through an application made under the Right to Information Act. The note suggests that both Chidambaram and the Prime Minister knew what Raja was up to, and they had no problem - at least on record - with the 2001 entry fee or the spectrum. The note remains 'mum' on Raja's allocation of spectrum. Chidambaram only advocates auctions for the future. (Under the norms, the entry fee included "free" start-up spectrum, but additional spectrum had to be paid for).

PM-Chidambaram Note

Both Chidambaram and Manmohan Singh were in position to stop Raja from signing the deals as the latter had only issued 122 letters of intent (LOIs) on 10 January 2008. The licences were still to be given. But given the silence of the Prime Minister, Raja went on signing licence agreements on the basis of the 122 LOIs even a month after Chidambaram's note to the Prime Minister.

Chidambaram's note assumes significance in the light of Janata Party President Subramanian Swamy's petition in the Supreme Court saying that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should investigate Chidambaram's role in the 2G scam. Swamy alleges that Chidambaram "fixed" spectrum rates along with Raja. The note shows that even if the two didn't collude to fix the prices, Chidambaram wanted to treat it as a "closed chapter".

While elaborating on the pricing of spectrum, Chidambaram's 15 January note reads: "At this point of time, the following three charges were levied":

1)Entry fee: The present entry fee is based on the highest bid received in 2001 or 2002, namely, Rs 1,651 crore, if operating over the entire country. DoT (Department of Telecommunication) has taken the stand (that) the entry fee is not in the nature of spectrum charges or licence fee.

2)Charges for spectrum: Currently, spectrum charges are fixed at 2%, 3% or 4% of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) depending upon the spectrum bandwidth...It is also provided that additional spectrum may be considered after ensuring optimal and efficient utilisation of the spectrum allocated.

3)Revenue share (also described as licence fee): With effect from 1.4.2004, the share is 10% for category A, 8% for category B and 6% for category C (telecom circles).

Chidambaram further says: "This note does not deal with the need, if any, to revise entry fee or the rate of revenue share. This note deals with spectrum charges for 2G spectrum."

Continues on the next page

The controversial issue of entry fee (as fixed in 2001), thus, faced no opposition in Chidambaram's note. He did not oppose the fact that Raja sold off spectrum in 2008 at 2001 entry rates. Chidambaram, in fact, made it clear that his note doesn't deal with revision of entry fees and even licence fees. The note overshadows all the earlier claims that his ministry, through former Finance Secretary D Subbarao, had opposed Raja's attempts to sell spectrum at 2001 rates. Even if the attempts were made, Chidambaram's note reflects that he was finally on the same page with Raja.

Chidambaram only tells Manmohan Singh the way the UPA Government can avoid legal hassles in future.

"Spectrum is a scarce resource. The price for spectrum should be based on its scarcity value and efficiency of usage. The most transparent method of allocating spectrum would be through auction. The method of auction will face the least legal challenge. If government is able to provide sufficient information on availability of spectrum, that would minimise the risks and, consequently, fetch better prices at the auction. The design of the auction should include a reserve price," Chidambaram wrote in 'bold letters' to Manmohan Singh.

Chidambaram then goes on elaborating on the nature of the auction. It could be a "one-time payment" for the additional spectrum or "an annual rent" for the additional spectrum, etc.

Interestingly, Chidambaram's note to the PM also pointed out that spectrum once allocated to a licensee may be sold to another person. In such cases, "it could be stipulated that the licensee should share with the government a part of the premium/profit gained through the sale."

This, in fact, is what happened with Swan Telecom and Unitech Wireless. Raja had allocated spectrum to Swan in 13 circles at the price of Rs 1,537 crore and to Unitech in 22 circles at Rs 1,658 crore. Swan and Unitech had not even rolled out 2G spectrum services, when Swan offloaded 45 percent of the company to a UAE-based company Etisalat for Rs 4,200 crore. Unitech offloaded 60% of its share in the licence to a Norway-based Telenor for Rs 6,100 crore.

The CBI, in its FIR, had estimated a loss of Rs 7,105 crore to the government by grant of licences to these two companies alone. On a pro-rata basis, the CBI FIR says, the estimated loss for all 122 circles is more than Rs 22,000 crore.

Winding up his note to Manmohan Singh, Chidambaram says:

"This leaves the question about licensees who already hold spectrum over and above the start-up spectrum. In such cases, the past may be treated as a closed chapter and the payments made in the past for additional spectrum (over and above the start up spectrum) may be treated as the charges for spectrum for that period." "However, prospectively, such licensee should pay for the additional spectrum that he holds, over and above the start-up spectrum, at the prices discovered in the auction. This will place old licensees, existing licensee seeking additional spectrum and new licensees on par so far as spectrum charges are concerned."

Chidambaram's note legitimises Raja's allocation of spectrum to new licensees like Swan, Unitech and Loop. He only advises that in future the government should auction additional spectrum to them.

Firstpost is now on WhatsApp. For the latest analysis, commentary and news updates, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to Firstpost.com/Whatsapp and hit the Subscribe button.
====================
Democratic presidential hopeful Martin O’Malley says plans to deport hundreds of illegal immigrants in a series of raids are not befitting of the Christmas season.

A Christmas Refugee Roundup sounds like something @realDonaldTrump would concoct. Remember: Jesus was a refugee child who fled death gangs. — Martin O'Malley (@MartinOMalley) December 24, 2015

.@DHSgov holiday plans for raids to round up/deport Central American refugees fleeing death are wrong. We are a better nation than this. — Martin O'Malley (@MartinOMalley) December 24, 2015

ADVERTISEMENT O'Malley's comments come hours after reports emerged that the Department of Homeland Security is planning a push to deport hundreds of immigrants from Central America who fled violence in their homelands.

Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, has called for a halt to a Syrian refugee relocation program and has advocated a temporary ban on Muslim immigration to the country.

In the nativity story recounted in the Gospel of Luke, Joseph and Mary go to Bethlehem after Caesar Augustus issued a decree calling for a census.

After Jesus was born, according to the Gospel of Matthew, Mary and Joseph were warned by an angel to flee to Egypt before King Herod issued a decree calling for all male infants to be killed.
====================
His £9m move to Sunderland remains a record for a British goalkeeper but it has taken specialist surgery and a long course of injections to give him a chance to play again

It had been widely assumed that Craig Gordon's next public utterance would be confirmation of retirement. Wrongly, as it transpires.

The man who still holds the record for the highest transfer fee for a British goalkeeper last played a competitive game in April 2012; even that was with the aid of a multitude of painkillers in one final attempt to earn a new contract at Sunderland.

Subsequent tales of Gordon's demise were not without foundation but he is now on the verge of a remarkable comeback, following on from the rare patella tendon injury that has had such a serious impact on his career. Three operations, several injections and even more setbacks later, Gordon has declared he is ready to return to football after taking part in full training sessions at Rangers.

This is a £9m player – Roy Keane took Gordon to Sunderland from Hearts in 2007 – capped 40 times by Scotland, who was credited with the best save in 20 seasons of the Premier League. He now has the hunger of a teenager starting out in football; finally Gordon's condition seems to match that.

"I'm 31 at the moment, I could have another eight or nine years. I fully intend it to be another eight or nine years," Gordon says. "I never carry any weight, I'm in great shape at the moment with under 10% body fat. I'm as lean as I have ever been and ready to go. It concentrates your mind when you are close to coming back because you want to be in the best shape possible.

"You never know, I could come back better than ever but that will obviously take time. It's time I'm willing to put in and effort that I'm willing to put in."

There are endearing reasons for his renewed desire. "My eldest daughter is three and a half, she doesn't remember her daddy playing football." The next step, of course, is to convince a club that he is worthy of an opportunity. Gordon believes he simply needs to manage his own day-to-day training regime in the manner of scores of other experienced players.

"I want to play games," he says. "What level that's at will depend what's available and who is looking for goalkeepers. I know it's a difficult time of the season to get in, I'm perhaps looking for an injury somewhere. Even if it was a bigger club looking towards next season who wanted me to come in and play reserve games between now and the end of the season, that would appeal to me. I am ready to play.

"I need to go and prove to people that I am fit, that I can train and play and I am totally fine with that. Any deal would probably be heavily structured because of my injury record and that's perfectly understandable, I accept that. It's just about getting that opportunity to play, hopefully before next season so that I'm not starting another new season without a club."

The low-profile assistance he is receiving from Rangers came about thanks to Gordon's former coach, Jim Stewart. Initially he used the gym at the club's training complex and now he has a strong relationship with the physiotherapist Steven Walker.

Gordon's surgery was carried out in Sweden by Professor Hakan Alfredson and subsequent treatment has involved the Barcelona-based specialist Ramón Cugat. Gordon has had a course of injections involving the removal of blood from his arm, spinning it in a centrifuge to create platelet-rich plasma, and injecting it into his knee to speed healing. Gordon's tendon was torn vertically, hence the problems discovering appropriate treatment.

Had he previously thought it was all over? "Too many times to count. There have been so many lows over the past couple of years, trying to get back and most of the time finding yet another dead end. I'm not one for giving up, I have kept going, but it has been tough at times. There has been a lot of soul searching.

"The career that I have had allowed me to spend near enough two years out of the game, trying to focus on just trying to get my knee better. Maybe if this had happened to somebody else, they would have had to go out and get a job but I have been able to focus all my attention on different types of treatment and trying to get back playing."

There is no bitterness in Gordon's outlook, though there is perhaps frustration at the way his situation was handled when it first came to light during the warm-up for a reserve match with Everton in late 2010. If there is anger, it is an understandable one towards those who questioned why Gordon was undertaking television work rather than playing even at a lower-league level.

"A lot of people have made comments without knowing what was going on," he says. "People thought I had fallen out of love with the game or I had chucked it or I didn't have the desire to get back into the game. Nothing could be further from the truth, I have done nothing but try everything possible to fix this injury. And I have done it on my own, I haven't had a club supporting me and putting me through these treatments or to pay for these treatments.

"To get to the point now where I am just about ready to get back into football, it has been a massive journey yet some people thought I wasn't trying or had somehow accepted that was it for my career, without knowing me or what was going on. That hurt me and hurt those around me.

"I have had plenty of advice to stop trying, to quit. I haven't taken that. I haven't looked at other careers. Everybody has been asking me what I was going to do with the rest of my life and I have always answered: 'I'm going to come back.' The careers officer at school used to ask me what I was going to do with my life and I always said: 'Play football.' It is the same now, I am going to get there.

"If I wasn't going to get there, I was going to try absolutely everything that was possible so that if it didn't work, I would know myself that I did anything I possibly could. That would have sat a lot easier. But for some people to think I would just quit? No, that's not me."

Still, the problem at its worst – the same one that afflicted Owen Hargreaves in both knees – had a strong impact on Gordon's everyday life. At the Stadium of Light, there was even apparent scepticism as to whether the ailment existed at all.

"If I was sitting for any length of time, I would have real pain in the knee," he says. "My knee was very hot all the time, through all the inflammation. It wasn't nice; even just walking down the street, with every step I could feel it. Thankfully that is long gone now, I can walk and run with no discomfort at all. It is a nice feeling now but I had to put up with a lot of pain for a long time.

"I regret the fact that I left Sunderland after five years having played less than 100 games. That wasn't what I envisaged when I went there and it was nowhere near enough games. I wish I could have that time again, stay injury free and play for Sunderland because it is a great club.

"I don't think people fully understood how severe the injury was at the start. I don't think the medical staff or the football staff fully realised. It went down a different road towards the end, I was even being sent to psychologists to figure out if the pain was just in my head. That was crazy to me at the time and still is, to be perfectly honest. There's plenty of evidence to the contrary, to show that there was physical damage there and that's what was causing the pain and not allowing me to come back."

Gordon is within touching distance of this road's end. Nobody should begrudge him a final bit of success thereafter.

Remember him? Big transfers with difficult endings

Francis Jeffers, Everton to Arsenal, 2001, £8m The 20-year-old strikerwas tipped to be the "fox in the box" Arsenal were looking for but an unfortunate spate of injuries combined with the impressive dynamism of Thierry Henry, Sylvain Wiltord and Dennis Bergkamp left Jeffers a forlorn figure. Jeffers lined up for 11 different clubs after leaving Arsenal. Charlton signed him for £2.6m in 2004, but subsequently the fees for Jeffers's services would generate only £700,000 for the next 10 years.

Albert Luque, Deportivo La Coruña to Newcastle United, 2005, £9.5m At 35, Luque has now been retired for three years. A former Spanish international with 17 caps to his name, he won the last of these caps shortly after his move to Newcastle in the summer of 2005. He endured an injury hit career on Tyneside before being off-loaded to Ajax and then Málaga where his contract was terminated in 2011.

Adrian Mutu, Parma to Chelsea, 2003, £15.8m The Romanian's positive test for cocaine use in September 2004 meant that shortly over a year after he had been signed, Mutu found himself jobless. Controversy would follow Mutu to Juventus, where the two Serie A titles he would claim there would eventually end up revoked due to the Calciopoli scandal, while Chelsea have pursued him for breach of contract.

Andriy Shevchenko, Milan to Chelsea, 2006, £30.8m The Ballon D'Or winner of 2004 was perceived as something of a glamour buy by Roman Abramovich. The Ukrainian's return of 22 goals in 76 games for Chelsea was not catastrophic but it did not provide value for money either and he was loaned back to Milan in 2008, before finally leaving Stamford Bridge for Dynamo Kyiv a year later.

Dean Ashton, Norwich City to West Ham United, 2006, £7.25m Ashton's January move to West Ham was a record fee for the paying club. Far from it being a question of money wasted, Ashton's opening months at the tail end of the 2005-06 season culminated in performances that took West Ham to the FA Cup final. But a broken ankle on England duty in August led to Ashton being sidelined for the rest of the season. He signed a new five-year deal in June 2008 yet, stricken by injury again, Ashton would only play five more times for the Hammers and at 26, he retired from professional football.
====================
Roborace is a driverless car racing championship that is set to start in the near future. But before Robocar takes to the track in competitive races, the championship has to test the autonomous electric vehicle and technology. Enter DevBot. The vehicle is the ugly duckling driverless prototype being used to develop and test the new driverless championships’ racecraft and technology.

Kinetik, the VC behind autonomous racing car championship Roborace, revealed images of its prototype driverless car in March 2016. The sleek, futuristic self-driving racing car was designed by Daniel Simon best known for his work in movies such as Tron:Legacy, Oblivion and Captain America.

By contrast, DevBot looks nothing like the highly acclaimed Dan Simon-designed car however. For starters, as a test vehicle, DevBot still features a cockpit for a human driver, and the prototype looks more like a shell of a car, which in essence is what it is.

DevBot: Blazing a Trail for Robocar

But DevBot has a serious job to do, and so far has been doing it well. The development car is based on a Le Mans prototype racer that does not have front or rear bodywork but is fitted with Robocar’s all-electric powertrain, sensors, computation systems and communication technology as the Robocar.

As Roborace works out the kinks of having completely autonomous cars race each other, they have been using the prototype to carry out their tests. The machine is being used to allow Kinetik and teams to experience how the hardware handles as well as develop their software, which is what will set the teams apart.

This is what Kinetik has to say about DevBot:

“The primary purpose of the DevBot is to allow teams to develop their software and experience the hardware that will be used on the ‘Robocar’, . . .

. . . Unlike the Robocar the DevBot has a cabin that can be driven by a human or a computer allowing teams to fully understand how the car thinks and feels on a racetrack alongside the comprehensive real-time data.”

DevBot takes to the Track

So far the technology has come on in leaps and bounds. DevBot’s first track outing was at Donington Park circuit in England where the prototype managed to complete one lap without a driver.

Fast forward to a few weeks in Marrakech for that city’s edition of the Formula E race and DevBot was all set for a very public outing. Roborace races will be held as part of curtain raiser events on official Formula E weekends, with 10 cars and teams set to take part in the championship. And so it was in Marrakech, the Roborace Car prototype was scheduled to make its first public appearance and trial run.

By the end of the test, DevBot had managed to complete 12 full laps without a driver in its cockpit. The prototype managed to complete 10 flying laps, an outlap, and an inlap. The car even managed to respect pitlane speed restrictions on its own. Once on the track, the car is designed to learn the track and increase its speed as it gets used to it.

The Future of Auto Racing is Now

Eventually the cars will be able to achieve speeds of up to 190 mph or more when the races are in full swing. Currently, Devbot is scheduled for further tests at Formula E circuits around the world, including Paris, Berlin, and New York.

When the racing championship begins, 10 Roborace teams will compete against each other using the the same Robocars but different algorithms. Robo race teams will field two cars each and are made up of technology and automotive companies, as well as motorsport and university-based teams. One entrant will be a crowdsourced team that will be given an opportunity to line up against the more established concerns.

When that finally happens, the ugly duckling DevBot should look a bit more like the beautiful looking swan Robocar below:
====================
This article is about the song. For the similarly named film, see Uptown Girls . For the Leif Garrett single, see Leif Garrett

"Uptown Girl" is a song written and performed by American musician Billy Joel. It was released on September 29, 1983, on his ninth studio album An Innocent Man (1983). The lyrics describe a working-class "downtown man" attempting to woo a wealthy "uptown girl."

The 12" EP featured the tracks "My Life", "Just the Way You Are" and "It's Still Rock and Roll to Me" (catalogue number TA3775),[2] whereas some 7" single versions featured "Careless Talk" as a B-side (TBC).[3]

Inspiration [ edit ]

According to an interview with Howard Stern, Joel had originally titled the song "Uptown Girls" and it was conceived on an occasion when he was surrounded by Christie Brinkley, Whitney Houston and his then girlfriend Elle Macpherson. According to numerous interviews with Joel, the song was initially written about his relationship with Macpherson, but it ended up also becoming about his soon to be wife, Brinkley (both women being two of the most famous supermodels of the 1980s).[4][5] Joel also has said that the song was inspired by the music of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons.[6]

Christie Brinkley appears as the main character of the video and later married Joel.

Success [ edit ]

Although "Uptown Girl" was not as successful in the U.S. as previous single "Tell Her About It", it was still a big hit. It peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100,[7] and number one in the United Kingdom, staying at that position for five weeks as his only number one hit in the country; it was the second biggest selling single of 1983 in the United Kingdom behind only Culture Club's "Karma Chameleon", which Joel had knocked off the number one position on November 1, 1983. The song was the 19th biggest-selling single of the 1980s in the United Kingdom, selling 975,000 copies. It has sold over 1.06 million copies as of 2017.[8]

Music video [ edit ]

In the music video, Billy Joel plays an auto mechanic who attempts to impress a high-class uptown girl, whose car has arrived at the auto shop/gas station for gas, with the help of three other mechanics.[9]

The title character in the music video was played by Christie Brinkley, whom Joel married two years later.

Different versions of the music video opening were produced, in which an auto mechanic is watching the end of Joel's previous hit "Tell Her About It" on a small television. Then, depending on the version, the next image on the television is either a blank screen or the logo of the network or TV show the video was on.[citation needed]

Charts and certifications [ edit ]

Weekly charts [ edit ]

Westlife version [ edit ]

"Uptown Girl" (re-released as double A-side with "Angels Wings" in 2002) was recorded by Irish boy band Westlife for their third studio album, World of Our Own. It was released on 6 March 2001 as the first single from the album. It was also the 2001 Comic Relief charity single. The song was also released as the fifth single for the European Special Edition and Asian Deluxe Edition Bonus Disc of the group's second album, Coast to Coast (2000). The Westlife version is slightly shorter than the Billy Joel version because one of the verses was repeated in the Billy Joel version which was not repeated in the Westlife version. On 12 May 2018, the song was performed on South Korean music programme 'Immortal Songs 2' by Baek Hyeong-hun & Ki Se-jung. Band member Shane Filan was the featured 'Legend' and judged the participants. He also performed the song on his solo tours.[citation needed]

"Uptown Girl" reached number one in Ireland and the United Kingdom. It became the biggest selling single of 2001 and the tenth best-selling single of all-time in Ireland. In the United Kingdom, it was the sixth best selling single of 2001 and the 24th best-selling single of the decade in the UK charts, with sales of 756,215 copies. It became the band's biggest selling single (paid-for and combined sales categories) in the UK and also achieved the highest first week sales (292,318 copies) of any of their singles. It has since been certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry for shipments of 600,000 copies.[29] As of March 2017, the song has sold almost 800,000 copies in the country from physical and digital copies which make up 81% of the total units.[30] As of January 2019, it has 920,000 total sales. It is also their second most streamed song in the United Kingdom of all-time.[31]

Music video [ edit ]

The video for this song was directed by Stuart Gosling, who previously directed the videos for Westlife's "What Makes a Man" and "I Lay My Love on You". It was shot in a Cafe/Diner setting, called Blondie's, with the members of Westlife working there as busboys. Claudia Schiffer starred as the title character, while Robert Bathurst, James Wilby, Ioan Gruffudd, Crispin Bonham-Carter and Tim McInnerny were featured as high class customers. The video starts with Shane Filan taking the orders of the five customers while Mark Feehily passes by. One of the customers starts the Jukebox and the song starts. The video ends with Claudia Schiffer leaving the Cafe to which the band members and several other customers followed her while the Cafe closes leaving the five customers at the cafe.[32] The single was also released as a video album and certified as Platinum by BPI in UK.

Track listing [ edit ]

United Kingdom

CD1

"Uptown Girl" (Radio Edit) – 3:06 "Angel's Wings" (2001 Remix) – 4:14 "Uptown Girl" (Video) – 3:14

CD2

"Uptown Girl" (Radio Edit) – 3:06 "Uptown Girl" (Extended Version) – 5:02 "Behind the Scenes Footage & Band Messages"

DVD

"Uptown Girl" (Video) – 3:14 "Behind the Scenes Footage & Band Messages"

Japan

"Uptown Girl" (Radio Edit) – 3:06 "Uptown Girl" (Extended Version) – 5:02 "Angel's Wings" (Original Version) – 4:02 "Close Your Eyes" – 4:32 "Uptown Girl" (Video) – 3:14 "Behind the Scenes Footage & Band Messages"

Charts and certifications [ edit ]
====================
Here’s an experiment idea:

It’s common in RPGs to have some sort of religion system, generally with a multitude of deities which are more-or-less at peace with one another, and whose followers typically do not try to murder each other at the first opportunity. Sometimes, you can offer donations to churches to get some bonuses, to karma or luck or whichever is applicable. Knowing the right time to pray is even a key gameplay element in Nethack.

This sort of behavior is, of course, also observed in the real world – people will often pray and make donations seeking to get something in exchange. The difference is that, in the game world, they actually get something out of it. But they don’t have to.

Consider an MMORPG with a religion system (whether it’s monotheistic or polytheistic is not important), and a series of temples spread around the world. Players can visit those temples, and consult a list of services that the temple can perform, along with their costs. Perhaps a player can get a 5% extra to-hit bonus for a donation of 100 gold. For 500 gold, he will get a +5% bonus chance to find rare items… Or so the temple claims. The player spends his hard-earned coin, and the game says something along the lines of “you feel lucky”. And nothing changes.

How many people would believe that? Would anyone conduct a systematic, scientific in-game research to evaluate how much of a difference said donations would provide? Even if some “skeptic” told other players that it’s a hoax, would they believe it? Perhaps they’ve donated once, and found a very rare item afterwards. Their minds would be making connections. What if this “truth” is spread in forums, FAQs and wikis… perhaps in the game manual itself? After months investing money in those things, wouldn’t the player feel even more compelled to believe that he wasn’t being cheated all along?

The idea could be developed further and let players take on the role of priests, although a mechanic would have to be designed to allow them to mess with the system without easily exposing its truth. For example, perhaps there’s a holy book defining how those bonuses work, in a cryptic (and possibly self-contradicting way) and leave it to the priests to interpret it and write the list of services. Temples that offered so much that it was visible that it didn’t work would lost trust, and temples that offered too little wouldn’t be able to compete. Some form of selection would eventually choose the best religion.

To my knowledge, no game has ever implemented such a system (if you know of one, please mention it on the comments). If it works as intended, analysis of player’s reactions to the system (and to the discovery that it was all their imaginations, if the developers ever decided to Word of God (pun unintended) it) could be very enlightening. Would that change how they perceive religion in the real world? Would such a study have any impact on understanding the psychology of belief? Perhaps not. But, if nothing else, it would be an interesting topic to bring up in a religion discussion.
====================
During the summer I noted on this site that, excluding the first couple of months of following his arrival, almost every time Jürgen Klopp fielded a strong team in his partial debut season he got a performance (and usually a win).

The immediate form after he took over was very mixed – in part due to fitness issues, and tactical misunderstandings – but the later form was almost always excellent, except when he had to resort to weaker line-ups to balance the insane number of games.

I think this created the narrative of inconsistency, which is something of a myth; especially when considering that a team on Liverpool’s budget will rarely excel every weekend and midweek when in Europe as well as reaching a domestic cup final. As I’ve said before, Liverpool average a win rate of around 50% in the Premier League era, and maybe this rises a little over 60% in really good seasons; it’s never 80% or 90%, let alone 100%.

(And even the elite teams have an aberration or two every season, often early on; not that Barcelona would ever lose to a promoted side before mid-September, or even, say, whilst I’m working on this article.)

Indeed, the myth of inconsistency was bolstered by people talking as if three away games to start the season – Arsenal, Burnley and Spurs – were representative of a normal league table: when a) the games were not the usual mix of home and away but all away, and b) they were, on average, tougher than normal, with visits to two of last season’s top three, plus a promoted team of hard-working battlers, fighting fit and fresh before they run out of steam in the winter.

Now – and has this happened before? – we’ve seen Liverpool play all of last season’s top three in their opening four games, with the 2015/16 champions arriving at the vastly improved Anfield, and another away game – at the 2014/15 champions – to follow next (to shift the home/away ratio to 1:4; or 1:6 if including the two League Cup away ties by the time of the Reds’ second home game).

People have talked about Liverpool being a better side away from home, but my sense is that Klopp had worked this summer to improve the home form as much as anything else. (Which I will come onto.)

When I analysed Klopp’s XIs from last season, and how they did when he wasn’t having to call upon squad players who he probably wouldn’t have chosen (several of whom he subsequently moved on, while others were youngsters being blooded), there seemed to be a pattern of big wins; or, in the case of the Europa League final, at least the chances to have racked up the goals to put the game to bed.

(And finishing is somewhat random: take Daniel Sturridge’s efforts that were saved by Kasper Schmeichel yesterday: on another day the close-range ‘lift’ over the keeper goes in, because a different keeper – or even the same keeper on a different day – may make a different decision or be slower to react, or not spread himself quite as fully as Schmeichel did in familial style. The striker obviously doesn’t always know for sure what the keeper will do and vice versa; just like anticipating a penalty, where it’s shown that a keeper cannot save one hit into the corners unless he dives before the kick is taken – i.e. pure guesswork, perhaps partially based on the player’s history and his run-up – it’s almost a game of paper-scissors-stone. Be aware that any time a striker keeps his shot low and the keeper saves it, the reaction is “he should have lifted it over him”. But if he tries to lift it over him and his effort is saved, then suddenly he should have tucked it under him. And yet how many goals are scored by hitting it straight at the keeper – something you should apparently never do – and then it slips through his legs? Loads. I guess my point on this digression is to judge “good finishing” whether or not it goes in – because as with the penalty example I just mentioned, you will see many examples of an average kick that goes in because the keeper dived the other way based on guesswork described as “great”.)

I found it interesting that last season, even without a super-sharp Sturridge, and with Origi and Firmino still bedding in, the Reds were able to put three or four past Man City, Borussia Dortmund, Chelsea and Arsenal, plus six past a Southampton side that were no mugs. For the most part, these were not games where the Reds took all of their chances to lend some flattery to the scoreline (although if I recall correctly, the City game seemed one when most chances were clinically taken).

The Reds also put three past a defence-oriented Manchester United side over two legs in Europe, and could easily have had double that amount. (Plus four against Everton, five against Norwich and six against Villa, even if these weren’t tough opponents, with Everton strangely lame in what is usually a feisty game.)

I repeated this assertion earlier this season, after the Reds had put four past Barcelona in pre-season, even if the Catalans weren’t at their sharpest and it was only a friendly, and then four more at Arsenal – which is not something we’re used to seeing.

To score four again, this time against the reigning champions, leaves me with the sense that there are the seeds of something very special, and that this is not a freakish big-scoring win here or there, but an actual trend. Liverpool are now the league’s leading scorers in 2016, and that’s without buying megastar strikers; and that obviously doesn’t include some high-scoring cup wins, too.

Equally, at this point there may be some level of inconsistency – it’s a young squad (although an older XI than usual was deployed against Leicester), still within the manager’s first 12 months, and without the kind of mega-investment that richer clubs can use to bypass aspects of the building process – but it’s important not to throw into the mix the stodgy results of last season achieved with shadow XIs, in between huge cup games, as if they were representative of Klopp’s progress, or blots on his copybook.

I also don’t believe Liverpool are as bad defensively as some suggest; not least because the opposition have scored from an unusually high percentage of their shots – which has to revert to the mean – often to punish some often minor positional errors. (And while I’m on the subject of errors, I thought Lucas defended superbly against Leicester, but had the kind of slip that can befall any player in any area of the pitch – but was of course the major error of the season so far.)

I actually think that this is a beautifully balanced team that Klopp has assembled, as I will go on to explain in some detail; albeit a side/squad that is isn’t without some understandable weaknesses, given that almost all teams (bar the truly generation-defining sides) have areas that can be improved upon or exploited by opponents. But we also have to accept that improvement often needs time, too.

Klopp has preferred to build without mega-signings, choosing to work with a core of what he inherited while adding some new dimensions (and depth) – but even if more cash had been splurged, we could now be looking at different weaknesses, such as a lack of unity (the “Di Maria effect” of star players who don’t want to be there) and absent understanding based on the higher churn of players, as well as the loss of what last season’s squad learned as a unit and as individuals working with Klopp for seven months. Every new player added would be a gamble of sorts, not least in how it would still often be 50/50 as to whether he succeeds. Every additional new player would have to get used to the new dynamics.

And it’s not like Klopp inherited a mega-squad that was massively underperforming, as has happened this summer at both Manchester clubs, and at Chelsea – clubs where perhaps a spark is all that’s needed. So this was never going to be Liverpool springing to a 90-point season in one summer, even if more players had been bought with the money that was there for the manager to spend.

It’s horrible to say that this is a “transitional period”, as no one wants to hear those words, but this is just the second month of a Jürgen Klopp Liverpool side that he helped shape (rather than just train). To me, this should be the transition from an erratic collection of players (as far as Klopp’s needs are concerned) assembled by various managers and scouts/analysts to the one where it has his stamp. It just probably won’t have the all-conquering nature, at this point, that some fans seem to expect, or the consistency and machine-like drive of his Dortmund side at its peak.

But I do still find it extremely reminiscent of the early periods in the tenures of Rafa Benítez and Gérard Houllier – the last two Liverpool managers to really build something vaguely sustained – in how an ethos and identity have been installed, and four or five first-team players have been added to give the side new dimensions and eradicate some previous weaknesses.

Both of those managers needed time to create their best sides: Houllier’s team peaked in years three and four, while Benítez’s won trophies in years one and two, but were a better team in the Champions League final of his third season, and his fifth season saw a vintage that would have won the league (86 points, top scorers, best goal difference) if not pitted against an especially strong Man United side. (This is all ifs and buts, but my point is that that was a great Liverpool side, and sometimes your success can hinge on the quality of opposition, which varies from year to year; had Cristiano Ronaldo had missed as many games as Fernando Torres did that season then the odds of a Liverpool title would have massively increased.)

And while a lot of Liverpool fans talk of the title right now (which is of course a natural desire), my wish is simply to see the Reds at the kind of competitive level they were from 2000 to 2002, and from 2004 to 2009. It’s obviously complicated by the greater number of contenders these days, but if the aim last season was to stand up, the aim now is to walk; with the ‘running’ maybe next season.

And to me, the ‘running’ means being title contenders (if not favourites) whilst winning a trophy here and there; or, fighting for the top four whilst competing strongly in Europe, which is always a tough dual-challenge. I’m not sure that this season is definitely too soon (barring doing well in Europe, which is off the table), but it should be about marked progress.

And if anything, as seen with clubs promoted via the playoffs – and certainly with Brendan Rodgers’ Liverpool – sometimes the success can appear to come too soon. Rodgers’ Reds made a remarkable leap in his second season, but there was none of the drama and silverware of a build-up over, say, three seasons, where methods become deeply ingrained (as was seen with Houllier and Benítez) and there is a machine-like quality, as previously mentioned about Klopp’s Dortmund in years three to five.

The title bid of 2014 was an attempted smash-and-grab, as obviously had to be undertaken when things started going so well – with Suarez sensational and an unexpected number of games being won (a bit like Leicester last season); and when you can’t turn away from the possible success unfolding before your eyes – but perhaps the lack of a sustained period of building up to a title challenge made it more of a flash in the pan. Rather than having a great side, or an excellent tenure, Rodgers ended up with ‘just’ an excellent season. I’d like Klopp to be about more than that.

So far with Klopp I’ve seen a lot of evidence – albeit within a small sample of games – of Liverpool being better than last season. I have a sense of gradual development.

There is evidence of improvements in various areas, if not anything nearing perfection. And it may just be my skewed perception, or early season optimism, but I have a much better feel about this team and its many strengths than I’ve had in most of the recent seasons. Aside from Klopp himself, it’s not built around one or two men, but a team ethic and gradual development.

Klopp’s Brand of Balance

The second half of this article is for subscribers only.
====================
US Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump (R) is greeted on stage by fellow Republican candidate Ted Cruz before speaking at a rally against the Iran nuclear deal in Washington, DC on September 9, 2015 (AFP Photo/Nicholas Kamm)

The GOP is doing everything it can to try and take down Donald Trump. Wednesday, Paul Ryan made a half-hearted attempt to attack Trump. But the best has been Mitt Romney, who tried and failed, as only Romney could, to take out Donald Trump.

Jimmy Kimmel showed a brilliant 60-second ad that helps people understand the differences between Donald Trump and Ted Cruz. First, on immigration, Trump wants to build a wall and deport 11 million immigrants. But, so does Ted Cruz.

Second, Trump’s economic plan calls for a “budget-busting multi-trillion dollar tax cut with no way to pay for it.” Unfortunately, Ted Cruz does too.

“But the difference is this: Ted Cruz is a strong conservative who, like Donald Trump, opposes gun control, abortion, Obamacare and regulation,” the Romney-sounding narrator explains.

“But here’s the thing: Donald Trump is universally despised by his fellow Republicans in Congress.” Well, so is Ted Cruz.

“This is key,” the narrator says finally finding a real difference between the two. “Ted Cruz has called for carpeting bombing terrorists until the sand glows in the dark. Whereas, Donald Trump doesn’t have any position on whether the sand should glow at the end.”





There it is. The real differences between the GOP frontrunners.
====================
Your weapon is choice. That's what Alpha Protocol proudly declares in this spy RPG with more than a shade of Mass Effect about it. Developed by the fine folk at Obsidian, Alpha Protocol has been a most promising prospect since it was first revealed, and the mixture of choice-laden RPG with secret agent shenanigans made for quite the irresistible cocktail.

Of course, having good ideas and having a good game are two different concepts that are rarely brought together, which leads us to the all important question -- is Alpha Protocol a choice worth making, or is it less James Bond and more Inspector Clouseau? Read on to find out.

Alpha Protocol (PC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 [reviewed])

Developer: Obsidian Entertainment

Publisher: Sega

Released: June 1

MSRP: $59.99

If you want to save time, let's get this out in the open right now -- Alpha Protocol isn't very good. In fact, it's absolutely dreadful and it should not have been released in the state it's in. It looks and feels every bit like a game that has been subjected to patches, fixes and panicked over-development, yet still managed to hit its (perpetually postponed) deadline without being finished. Alpha Protocol is a mess, and that's putting it kindly.

The game is split fairly evenly between token RPG efforts and third-person action, although it's clear that this is far more of an action game than it is a roleplaying one. As Agent Mike Thorton, you join the ranks of the Alpha Protocol, a clichéd clandestine organization that specializes in deniable ops. The game is designed for multiple playthroughs, as the story can change with every choice you make. In this regard, Obsidian has certainly done something right. How you speak to characters, who you choose to kill, and how you perform your missions can all have an effect on the game, and for once they're effects that you can actually feel throughout the course of the game, with long-standing repercussions for your decisions.

Alpha Protocol is innovative in that you never quite know how your words and actions will alter the situation, and unlike other games, where the conversations can be influenced with charisma stats, the interactions of this particular title are determined entirely by whether you choose to be aggressive, professional, or humorous. Intuitively getting a feel for the situation and the temperament of NPCs takes precedence over shallow and meaningless dialog choices perpetuated by other RPGs. In the background, Alpha Protocol is still taking you through formulaic and preordained conversations, but the illusion of a natural choice and flowing conversation is crafted surprisingly well. In terms of the way a story is told, Alpha Protocol is a success.

However, Alpha Protocol's story never gets very interesting, rendering all the clever narrative tricks rather worthless. The characters aren't compelling in the least, the narrative is convoluted and feels completely alienated from the overall experience, and Agent Thorton himself is a rather dull character who doesn't seem to change all that much regardless of your dialog choices. Frankly, he comes across as a moronic dick no matter how you "choose" to play him. Great news for moronic dicks everywhere, but bad news for anybody else.

With a narrative and characters that have all the dimensions of a sheet of paper, the game really needs to rely on its thrilling spy action to remain interesting. That reliance is soon revealed to be a terrible, terrible mistake. It's difficult to describe just how bad the game is, because it's one of those things so unbelievably abominable that one has to experience it for oneself. However, since playing this game is not recommended, I'll certainly try and evoke the putridity of the gameplay in text.

First of all, enemy AI is an astonishing shambles, almost to the point of being impressive. Opponents run around with seemingly no direction whatsoever, apart from the ones who will charge directly into your bullets because they want to punch you in the face. No joke, one in three enemies want to do nothing but punch you in the face. He won't fire his gun, he'll just sprint towards you, dodging from left to right like a headless chicken, then he'll punch you in the face -- once -- and slowly back away, shooting you. It makes absolutely no sense, and yet it seems to have been deliberately programmed into the game's AI because that's all the enemy soldiers ever want to do. That is, when they're not conjuring up endless grenades to spam with alarming regularity.

There is a cover system, but it doesn't work. Most of the time the enemies will just shoot through the cover and kill you, and it's also impossible to tell what works as cover and what doesn't. Some surfaces can't be hidden behind, but you won't know until you try, soaking up extra damage in the process. Once you do find cover, you then have to hope Thorton will actually stick to it, and later you'll hope that he unsticks when you want to move on. It's very much a "touch and go" situation as to whether or not Thorton will behave the way you want him to. In other words, Thorton will decide when he wants to pretend he's in a competent third-person-shooter, not you.

The game is supposedly able to be played one of three ways -- using stealth, using brute force, and using gadgets. Stealth is no good because the enemy AI is so unpredictable and spotty, not to mention the useless camera and poor graphics make spotting enemies ahead of time difficult, and the complete lack of hiding places negates the idea of sneaking around. The gadgets are a cool idea, but nothing too innovative, and playing strictly as a gadget-based character mostly means throwing grenades around. That leaves you with a combat-oriented character, but combat is so crap that it's not really very fun.

It seems as if Obsidian tried to mix RPG combat with real-time shooting action, and it doesn't really work (what a surprise!). All it means is that sometimes the guns will miss even if the reticule is dead on target. You can stay still and watch the reticule close in an enemy for a critical shot, but the opponents are running around like the aforementioned decapitated poultry, so good luck with that. Steadying one's aim is next to impossible with the insane characters who are either running towards you, running in circles, or running nowhere, with Thorton stuck in the middle of this chimp's tea party surrounded by grenade spam and broken cover systems.

A big deal is made of the close quarters combat, but I don't know why because it's terrible. It consists simply of mashing one button and hoping for the best, especially as there's no targeting system for melee attacks and Thorton will frequently just punch the air in front of an enemy's face while they shoot the crap out of him. Unfortunately, it's almost essential to keep upgrading Thorton's melee skills because of those enemies who are obsessed with punching him.

When not dealing with a ruined combat system, players can have the action completely broken up by an overabundance of lockpicking and hacking minigames. You'll be pleased to know that they are the worst lockpicking and hacking minigames ever developed. The lockpicking, for example, forces players to gently squeeze one trigger/shoulder button to put a very tiny lock in place, then push the other trigger to set it. They need to do this multiple times with an absurdly strict time limit in place and it is twice as frustrating as it sounds. Sometimes the locks won't work, either, meaning you have to cancel out of the minigame and get back into it to reset things. At first the lockpicking is not so bad, but as the game goes on, you have more locks and less time on the clock.

Hacking is very much the same situation. Too much to do, and not enough time to do it in. Code cracking involves a grid full of rapidly changing symbols, except for two codes hidden within that remain the same, almost like a wordsearch. Players have to move two code overlays across the grid, but if they're too slow, the codes move elsewhere on the grid and need to be found again. Not only that, but the overlays move across the grid so slowly that even if you find the codes in time, there's no guarantee you'll get the overlay in place before it moves. All of this must be done before an overall time limit runs out. As with lockpicking, this already convoluted system becomes stricter and more difficult as time goes on, to the point where most sane players will give up entirely and ignore all hacking.

As if that wasn't enough, there's another form of hacking, mostly used for door locks and alarms. In this system, players must match corresponding numbers by following a short maze between the two figures. The maze paths can intertwine meaning that quick eyes and swift action are required. Out of all the minigames, this one isn't half bad, but don't worry, they find a way to screw it all up. Basically, the game thinks it's frightfully clever to increase the amount of numbers that need matching without adequately increasing the time limit. As soon as you see an alarm with ten numbers that need matching, just forget it, because it's not doable. The time limit is simply too short and the controls are too slugging and slow to deal with it. Not only that, but you can't rush the game because any mismatched number will shorten the already too short time limit.

In fairness, there are stats you can level up to make these minigames less abysmal and easier to d eal with, but Alpha Protocol masquerades as a game about choice, and if you choose not to max these stats out, you will basically be screwed over later on. You're never warned just how abundant these minigames are, with a new lock to pick or computer to hack appearing literally every five minutes, usually in clusters. Basically, if you want to enjoy Alpha Protocol at all, you need to max those stats or face hours upon hours of locked doors and untouchable computers that will reward your efforts with nothing but misery and rage. Choice is an illusion.

Alpha Protocol's RPG elements aren't half as bad as the combat and general gameplay. Thorton can be customized in a number of cool ways, from his personal history to his various skills and proficiencies. Gaining skills in different guns won't just increase his damage with them, but they will confer unique special abilities, accuracy upgrades, and critical hit chances. Thorton's actions during the game will also result in special perks that will stick with him throughout the game. Damage bonuses, health upgrades and more can all be won simply by talking to somebody in a certain way, or choosing to spare and end different lives. If Alpha Protocol has managed to do one thing in a new and impressive way, it's weaving an RPG experience throughout an action game, rather than keeping the two elements completely distinct from one another. It's just a shame that such clever and thoughtful development is wasted in this complete travesty of a videogame.

As with any good RPG, there are all sorts of special skills and buffs that can be unlocked while leveling up Thorton. It's a shame that very few of them are actually useful, though. Generally, you'll find one or maybe two special skills and stick with them, especially since selecting gadgets and skills requires pausing the game to bring up a radial menu in order to select what you want and then going back into the game and pressing a different button to use it. Most games, better games, just let you automatically activate a skill from the radial menu itself, but Alpha Protocol isn't a good game, so you have this pointless little process to go through instead.

Speaking of pointless processes, the mission selection is a complete pain in the backside. After every mission, Thorton has to go back to his safehouse and engage in rambling conversations before he can do anything. There are all kinds of time wasting activities, such as reading emails and buying weapons, but all these actions are accessed via pointless wandering from one destination to the next. Running upstairs to your computer to read vapid emails from dicks in between every mission just isn't fun. But then, nothing else about Alpha Protocol is fun so at least it's keeping with the theme.

The game's graphical presentation does a good job of matching the atrocious quality of the gameplay, with textures that frequently pop in and out, all manner of visual glitches such as floating objects or unresponsive targeting, and just good old fashioned bad animations and sub-par effects typifying the game's commitment to being bad. This is all topped off with mediocre voice acting, mediocre sound effects, and mediocre music. Essentially, Alpha Protocol looks exactly how it plays -- like a bad budget game that isn't even worth $20, let alone the $59.99 asking price.

Generally speaking, writing a bad review is never fun, and only a sadist would derive pleasure from crucifying a videogame in public. However, when a game comes out that's so bad only the willfully ignorant could deny its awfulness, harsh and cruel criticism is thoroughly deserved. Because there's no excuse for pap like this. There's no justifiable reason you could have for essentially conning people out of their hard earned money for a game so badly cobbled together. There are games in their beta stage that are more complete, better designed, and more worth paying for than this mistake.

It's disgusting that a game in this forsaken a state is asking for a single thin dime, let alone sixty bucks. Even if it was free I wouldn't recommend it. Alpha Protocol, to its slim credit, has its basis in noble and ambitious ideas, and those ideas are even well executed on the whole. However, while the ambitious stuff hits the mark, the bog standard gameplay has suffered beyond measure. You can build the most magnificent castle in the world, but if the foundations are made out of wet feces, everything's going to crumble and fall apart before your very eyes. Alpha Protocol is a castle that's collapsed in crap. Proof that even the most accomplished of visions are worthless if the fundamentals aren't in place.

Obsidian and Sega, like the US government portrayed in this very game, are better off denying all involvement in this failed operation.

2.0 -- Bad (2s are a disaster. Any good they might have had are quickly swallowed up by glitches, poor design choices or a plethora of other issues. The desperate or the gullible may find a glimmer of fun hidden somewhere in the pit.)





You are logged out. Login | Sign up

reviewed by Jim Sterling
====================
The IAAF, always conscious of doing the right thing, tweeted greetings to Czech mid-distance runner Jarmila Kratochvilova on the occasion of her 62nd birthday. The photo they used, above, is from 1983, commemorating another remarkable anniversary: Kratochvilova's world record in the 800 meters, 1:53.28, set in 1983, is the longest standing world record in track & field. Wowsa! Boggles the mind, eh?

The IAAF mentions her 400 meter world record, 47.99 seconds—that amazing mark, also set in 1983, is now number two on the world all-time list behind that of that great product of East Germany, Marita Koch.

Kratochvilova's IAAF profile shows that, while brilliant, her career was short. She first posted marks in 1981, 1983 being the banner year when she set both 400 and 800 meter world records, with very little documented in 1984, which is odd since it was an Olympic year. The last event in her profile is a 1:57.81 800 meters, run in 1987.

The only threat to Kratochvilova's world record in recent times was run by Kenyan Pamela Jelimo, who ran a slew of world list-making times in 2008, including a gold medal performance at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, but struggled after that. In 2012, Jelimo, then-marathon world record holder Patrick Makau and Matthew Kisorio came under scrutiny for doping by German journalist Hajo Seppelt, the same guy who broke the recent story of endemic Russian doping and the IAAF's possible collusion.

The IAAF reports that Kratochvilova remains active in Czech athletics and has been part of that country's national team management since her retirement from the sport. They don't forget people, the IAAF.

Advertisement
====================
Letwin, Grieve and Garnier call for appeal against Brexit ruling to be dropped to avoid legal risks and save time and money

Senior Tories have urged Theresa May to scrap the government’s appeal against a high court ruling which states that parliament must vote on leaving the EU.



Oliver Letwin, the former head of the government’s Brexit preparations, has called on the prime minister to abandon its supreme court appeal over the decision on article 50, the mechanism that triggers exit negotiations.

The former attorney general Dominic Grieve and former solicitor-general Sir Edward Garnier also said May should avoid taking the case to the UK’s highest court.

The three Conservatives, who all supported the remain campaign, said they wanted the process to start as soon as possible with a bill in parliament.

Garnier told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Saturday: “That way you avoid an unnecessary legal row, you avoid a lot of unnecessary expense, but you also avoid an opportunity for ill-motivated people to attack the judiciary, to misconstrue the motives of both parties to the lawsuit, and you provide certainty.”

Letwin, a former minister who was director of the “Brexit unit” after the referendum, said avoiding the supreme court would avert the risk of judges granting veto powers to devolved administrations.

Grieve told Today the government’s chances of success at the supreme court hearing, scheduled to start on 5 December, were low. “I can’t see the point in the government continuing with the case and also agree that if they enact primary legislation, they will get it through parliament,” he said.

Three high court judges ruled on 3 November that the prime minister does not have the power to trigger article 50 on her own. The government quickly announced that it would appeal against the decision.

A spokesman for the Department for the Exit of the European Union said: “The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by an act of parliament and the government is determined to respect that result.

“We will robustly defend our position in the forthcoming appeal. As the prime minister made clear [on Friday], our work is on track and we remain committed to triggering article 50 by the end of March next year.”

The Tory former education secretary Nicky Morgan backed the calls for May to drop the case.

Morgan, a prominent remain supporter, told LBC radio: “I think it would be a good thing if the government did abandon the appeal to the supreme court and they got on with a short act of parliament, so parliament can get on with saying yes to the government triggering article 50.

“We can get on then with negotiating the terms on which we are going to leave, the terms on which we are going to continue to have a relationship with the EU going forward.”

The former Scottish first minister Alex Salmond said the Tories’ comments showed their contempt for Scotland’s rights.

The SNP’s Europe spokesman said: “Sir Oliver Letwin and co have now blurted out the true blue Tory attitude towards Scotland. They would even rather abandon the Brexit appeal than take any chance of the supreme court being sensitive to Scottish European concerns.

“Every Tory in Scotland should cringe with embarrassment as the Tory contempt for Scotland’s rights as a nation has been laid bare. The trouble for the Tories in Scotland is that their Westminster colleagues have been caught telling the truth about their anti-Scottish prejudices.”


====================
I hate selfies.

I can't even begin to explain how much that term gets on my nerves. Seeing people take them or even speaking of them irritates me. It doesn't aggravate me or anger me, it merely irritates me, and there is a specific reason why.

It was my sixteenth birthday, and my parents had finally given me the phone I had been asking and begging for. Though it was also the summer time, so I wasn't too eager to spend my days peering into the screen of a device. Most of my days were spent in the forest adjacent to our yard. I liked to spend time there often due to the serene and quiet feel of nature. There was a soothing creek that echoed through the woods. The intriguing aspect is that I could never seem to find this creek. It had always evaded me, I only experienced the unforgettable noises of it.

As I sat by my favorite tree, I drew up some of the forest landscape around me. My hand traced the textures of the lofty trees, but soon made an unexpected scribble. I was alerted and my hand jutted out uncontrollably. Someone had messaged me. The text read: "Where are you?" One of my friends was asking. I decided that rather than replying I should send a picture.

I decided to pull out my phone and take a selfie. I decided not to send it to him as I soon became engaged in the natural beauty surrounding me. I swiftly began snapping pictures of myself all over the woods. I was in trees, in the leaves, and even by some odd looking plants. Before I noticed the clock I recognized the daylight escaping me. It had hastily become dusk and I had to head back home.

After eating dinner I headed to my room to look through the pictures I had taken. I plugged in my phone and opened the folder with ease. I scrolled through each picture, laughing at some of the faces I had made. When I got to the twenty-seventh picture I was startled by something peculiar. All I could see was a black screen. There was no image, not even a time stamp in the lower left corner. I found it quite odd, because even if I had just left my finger over the lens there still would be a time stamp.

I continued to scroll through, but still all I could find were more and more of these all black pictures. At number thirty-nine I could once again view my pictures. However, instead of them continuing where I had left off it had skipped every picture that was replaced by a black frame. I specifically remembered taking those pictures, but yet they had become black squares, completely unidentifiable.

I came to the conclusion it must have been some glitch and I passed out on my bed.

The next day I spent going out with some of my friends, and I took a couple pictures with them in the mall. The rest of my day I spent once again in the woods, and this time sound of the running creek had grown louder. I looked in eager excitement for it, but was disappointed when I had no luck. I continued taking more pictures in the woods, and once again returned home by twilight.

I scanned through my pictures this time happy to see all of them present until I got to the photos of the forest. Again, several of the pictures from the woods were blotched spots of darkness. I began pounding my keyboard in frustration. My mall pictures showed up, but I had no luck with the ones from the woods; only a few had come through.

As I almost gave up, I remembered something. It seemed odd and inexplicable, but none of my pictures had shown when I was within listening distance of that eerie creek noise. I was puzzled, "How the hell could that noise have anything to do with my phone?”

The next day I returned to the woods in an attempt to resolve the issue. I felt confident, and I entered the area with quite a presence, almost with anger I stomped in with determination at this point. I began snapping pictures of the environment surrounding me. All of the photos were visible, but I wasn't anywhere near the sounds of the creek. I searched for hours, but had trouble pinpointing the echoing sound.

As I was soon ready to leave I heard the sounds of trickling water meander its way through the woods. My head stood higher in excitement. I loaded my phone's camera and took a good look at everything to ensure there weren't any issues. It appeared to be in perfect condition. Reluctantly, after taking several pictures, I scrolled through a gallery of black photos.

I looked at my camera once again as a sigh escaped my breath. I screwed around with the toggles and filters. I had put my camera on the shutter setting which takes multiple pictures at once. I clicked the button in hope of different results. After shooting the images I looked down at a screen that differed from the rest of the snaps, though I wish it hadn't.

No longer a black screen, I looked down at image I preferred not to peer into. It was hard, but I forced myself to keep my gaze directed where it was. On the screen of my phone I looked down at a picture of myself. I sat there with my stretched grin accompanied by the colorful trees in the backdrop. There were several leafs on the ground, nothing out of the ordinary. I had looked normal, the forest looked normal, everything about the image was normal. Everything but the man behind one of the trees that is.

Somewhat blurred due the shutter, I saw no more than twenty feet behind me, a slim dark figure. Lofty in size he stood, looking as if he were on the move. It was hard to recognize much about him. I couldn't really explain in much more detail what I saw other than that. In reluctance I tried scrolling through the rest of the images. He remained in the other pictures, and continued to move across the screen. In the last couple of pictures he halted.

By the end of the roll he was no longer mobile, he stood in an eerie static stance. Disturbingly his head was turned, and his unrecognizable face was directed straight towards the lens. He looked as if he knew I was taking a picture, almost as if he were posing for the camera.

My attention on the phone quickly broke once I heard the rushing waters of what had transformed from the noises of a creek to a river. I can't exactly explain why, but I felt discomforted at the growing sounds of the river. I turned and darted home.

I didn't sleep well that night. I tossed and tumbled in bed unable to shake the sounds of the rushing river. The entire night it was the only noise I could hear in my room, what once soothed me had now consumed my ability to think straight. Finally once I fell into slumber the noises faded. When I awoke in the morning I felt rather groggy and tired. I stood from my bed when I noticed something.

There was an edge from a slip peeking out from under my pillow. I was curious to see what it was, perhaps my mom had left me a letter. I held it in my hands as my emotions shifted from eager to disturbed. An unnerving feeling had filled my stomach once I read the caption written on the pamphlet. "Look inside," it said. Seeming as if it were inviting me into danger, I had no other choice but to look at the papers the envelope contained.

I held a bundle of pictures in my hand, but not any pictures, these photos made my stomach drop. With little ability to move I flipped through the photos. I wasn't looking at repulsive images of gore, or scary faces from a movie set. Instead these images were so powerful they had numbed my emotions, they disturbed my mind. The photos I was looking at were photos of me, not selfies, not from Facebook, but from last night.

I looked down at them and saw myself sleeping in bed fully vulnerable to whatever stood behind the camera. Stretched over me was an elongated shadow of the photographer. Several of these pictures were similar, but I began to have trouble looking through the rest as the photographers motives seemed to change. He began holding up tools and weapons, leading to suggestions of torture.

I felt rather unsafe and knew I had to tell someone about this. Just before going to inform my parents I noticed a white sheet at the bottom of the pictures. The piece of paper read, "How does it feel? Having pictures of you taken in your own home by some invader.” I was filled with confusion. I now wondered who possibly could have taken the pictures.

Regardless I ran to my parents to show them the images. I was disheartened by their response. Apparently to them all they saw were blank images, similar to the ones I had earlier seen. I decided no one would believe me and I returned to my room. From that point on I never felt safe again, I took extra precaution in everything I did. I didn't return to the woods that day; I didn't leave the house.

That night I locked my door. I sat in bed all night unwilling to shut my eyes. At around 2am I heard the subtle sounds of the calming creek echo down the hall to my room. it resounded and grew louder and louder to the point where I heard a river outside my door. Something stood on the other side of my door, I knew this because I saw a moving shadow swaying and covering the light under the crack.

I got under my sheets, and pretended to be asleep, as the entity began pounding on my door in frustration. I saw the knob of my door twist and turn back and forth as it struggled to break through. There was a loud pop as it undid my lock and the door sluggishly creaked open. My defense was down and now nothing stood between me and the intruder.

The sound now louder than ever soon morphed from the noises of a river, to the realization of what it really was. This creature, whatever it was, created the noises of the creek. Its mucus-filled mouth and runny nostrils set off the sound every time this being struggled for breath. I saw its battle to breathe as it wheezed its slimy gasps for air out. It almost sounded as if the creature were dying.

I had only at this point heard the entity, but soon would see it. I cracked my eyes open as little as possible to get a visual on it. I saw standing in my room, the same black scrawny figure I had viewed in the woods. It surprisingly didn't move it only sat there as if it were attempting to take advantage of my oblivious state. It looked just the same as before, even blurry in person it had no recognizable features, only it was skinny tall and fully black.

That night would be the first and last time I had seen the creature in person, but it wasn't the last time I had heard him. I am still unsure about a lot, but I can say to this day the noise of his breathing has never left me and only grows louder and louder. My belief is that thing lived in the woods, and now is seeking some sort of revenge as I invaded his home.

I try not to take pictures anymore, because I see him in every single one, and he gets closer and closer each time. He began around twenty feet out, but in the last picture I took he was just inches away. The noises that once sounded like a calming creek have now morphed into the extremity of a rapid gushing waterfall.

Even though I can't see him I know he or better yet, it is getting closer, and I can only hope I have a little time left each day. I haven't taken a picture in months and I still don't plan to, but as I sit here typing the sound of the waterfall is only getting louder and louder...

Written by Pacersnation16


====================
A new build of Fantasy Strike is available to our patrons on Patreon.

vv10444

Also, we have updated the Game Guide, which is linked at the top of this site.

There's a lot different since the last free weekend demo event. Faster walkspeeds and knockdowns create faster pacing, the throw system has changed, several improvements to online play will make that a smoother experience, all characters now have fun animations before the fight starts, plus numerous graphical improvements and balance changes.

Here are the changes:

GAME SPEED

--Increased walk speeds for all characters except Midori.

--Reduced time spent knocked down by 33%.

Some animations were changed to preserve the same gameplay as before the knockdown timing change:

Rook normal throw, C throw, and air C knockdown

Valerie normal throw and yomi counter

DeGrey normal throw

Setsuki normal throw

THROW BUTTON

--We are trying a change to the throw system that replaces the old throw command with a dedicated throw button. (The old command is not available.)

--The default button for throw is the i key on keyboard and the R1 button on PlayStation 4. You can remap it to whatever button you like.

--All throws have frame stats (startup / active / recovery) of 3 / 4 / 18.

--If a throw using forward+T or back+T clashes on the same frame as a throw using neutral+T, the f/b+T throw will win. This is a slight incentive to leave neutral (and thus be more vulnerable to yomi counters).

Developer’s note: We feel that in the end, we should not offer an option for players to use SF2-style throws or a throw button. Instead, it should be standard as one way or the other. Because this particular option has gameplay advantages in some situations with a throw button and in other situations with SF2-style throws, if we offered what appears to be an ergonomic option, it will actually force players to set it one way or the other to be competitive. It can even lead to a case where almost everyone prefers the ergonomics of one way and almost everyone is sad they are “forced” to set it the other way. It can even vary by character which option would be advantageous, which would be very fiddly to deal with. So, tell us if you prefer the throw button method used in this build, or not.

ONLINE PLAY

--Added a connection quality display (1 - 5 bars) in the upper right corner during online matches.

--Fixed game crashing when either the online opponent disconnects before the start of the match, or an online opponent pulls you out of the start of an arcade mode match.

--Fixed game getting visibly frozen when the online opponent disconnects before the start of the match.

--Fixed a “GGPO assertion” crash that sometimes happened during online play.

--Fixed a problem where sometimes the first frame of an online game had the camera way off to the side.

--Fixed a problem where sometimes the first frame of an online game showed very dark, wrong shading on the characters.

--Fixed a bug that caused particles on a stage (such as snow) to be frozen after rematching.

--Fixed a rare crash that could happen when checking the opponent's ping.

INTROS

--All characters now play intro animations before the fight starts (before round 1). Hype!

CHARACTERS

GRAVE

--Grave no longer changes eye colors in each costume color version.

--Shading on his front hand improved on the character select screen.

JAINA

--Now updated to our latest system for handling costume colors. This slightly improves her shading overall. It also reduces her file size for her drastically and makes load times faster when cycling between color choices.

--Costume color 8 is a new dark red outfit.

SETSUKI

--Revised animation for neutral A. Also, can now press A twice for a two hit sequence. The hits do not combo, but the sequence is faster than pressing A,A would be in the previous build. It looks and feels better than before, and is also a buff.

--New animation for her normal throw.

--Ground super has slightly taller hitbox so that it more easily combos after hitting with B teleport kick. This became harder in the previous build because the increased speed her super travels caused the juggle to fail too often, so this corrects that.

--Improved shading on Setsuki’s hair for all costume colors.

--Speed lines added to her win animation.

--Speed trails added to her practice animation on the score screen after online games.

ROOK

--Super cooldown time 16s -> 18s

--Ground super active frames reduced by 30%, but still very long.

--Neutral jump A hitbox better matches where his hand is (was much larger than his hand before).

--The C throw done after back+A thunderclap has a new animation now.

VALERIE

--Greatly sped up the timing between the two hits of neutral A,A. Still cannot combo though.

--The last 6f of active frames of each hit of A,A have been turned into recovery frames. This better matches the animations.

--Paint trails added to her practice animation on the score screen after online games.

GEIGER

--Super recharge time 16s -> 18s.

--Time stop super has more recovery afterwards 2f -> 8f.

--Air C now requires gear meter, just like ground B and ground C. This means you can still jump back C or jump neutral C, but jump forward C won’t work. You can still jump forward air B (which holds you in the air long enough to charge your gear meter) then air C. This change means there is more reason to use back+A, air A, and the aforementioned jump forward air B -> air C trick. It also causes you to care about spacing on the ground more so you can look for opportunities to jump straight up C.

--Ground C’s hitbox changed very slightly behind Geiger’s head. It was accidentally slightly too good at hitting characters that already got to the other side of him and crossed him up. There’s no change to the rest of it (in front and above him), so in normal situations it’s still amazing.

--Revised animation for back+A kick to look better.

--Costume colors 2 and 3 changed to lighter blue suit and brown suit. Also, his pinstripes adjusted on all costume colors.

DEGREY

--Fixed a bug that caused DeGrey’s yomi counter to reset the opponent’s block damage to state to no longer be flashing after the yomi counter. It now keeps the flashing block damage state, like all other yomi counters.

--New visual effects for jump straight up A punch.

--Adjusted visual effects for back+A ground punch. The effects are now a better indication of the range of the move.

--New animation for A,A punches. First hit reaches farther now and it also looks better.

--Very slight increase to throw range, to better match other characters’ ranges.

MIDORI

--Normal throw now leaves opponents too far away to threaten a throw loop, unless the opponent is cornered.

--Fixed an issue that made some characters end up much closer than others after getting hit by Midori’s normal throw.

--Normal throw has slightly shorter range (but still enormous range).

--”Stored” throw (when he glows purple) has shorter range (but still enormous range) to better match the range of his normal throw.

--Dragon’s B torpedo no longer knocks down, meaning he can no longer repeatedly threaten to cross you up with it as you get up -> knockdown -> repeat.

--Super recharge time 18s -> 20s.

--While in dragon form, getting thrown no longer pauses dragon form’s timer. Also, while in dragon form, throwing the opponent now does pause dragon form’s timer. These rules were always reversed, so this is now the first time it’s working correctly.

--Dragon’s yomi counter has new graphics for hitsparks.

--Dragon’s f+A,A breath weapon has slightly improved visual effects.

--Improved shading on Midori Dragon wings so they don’t have large regions of black shadows.

--New visual effects for A,A flurry punches.

--Fixed technical issues with the graphics for Midori’s clothes that made some parts have jagged edges that looked low res when seen up close. This was especially visible on his sleeves on the character select screen. This was a lot harder to fix than you would ever imagine.

--Revamped Midori’s costume color choices.

--Fixed a bug that made the shading on Midori’s pants appear to suddenly change at the end of his normal throw.

MISC

--Further developed cel-shading. Outlines on characters are slightly thinner and no longer pure black. Also, character specific work was done to clean up lines, such as on Grave’s hair, Grave’s clothes near his chest, Jaina’s hair tie, and Midori’s sleeve.

--Improved shadows on the edges of all objects in the backgrounds of the dojo stage and clock tower stage. For now, this change is only there for the “graphics quality: high” setting.

--Fixed a bug (that has been happening for 7 months) where red life drained way too quickly after you got hit. The red now correctly shows long enough for you to see how much damage you just took.

--Fixed a bug that showed the FPS display two times on top of itself.

--Reduced CPU usage by 3-8% for characters that use “dynamic bones”, which includes Grave, Jaina, Midori, Setsuki, and Valerie.

--Fixed a problem on the main menu where pressing two buttons to setup a controller could conflict with the shortcut to launch the Fig crowdfunding page. It now works as intended such that you must press and RELEASE the PlayStation square button in a short amount of time to launch the Fig link. Holding it down will not launch it so that it does not conflict with controller setup or with holding square to leave the queue in quick match.

--After a draw game in a local versus match, it now correctly says “Draw” over each player’s rematch menu.

--New sound effect at the start of all supers.

--Fixed an error in the practice mode frame data display that showed an accidental +1f (actually, +landing recovery) on most grounded moves' displayed recovery and frame advantage.

--Fixed an error in the practice mode frame data display that showed an accidental +1f on projectiles' displayed recovery (didn't take into account 1f of "active frames")
====================
caption Users of TripAdvisor say their reports of rape and assault were removed by the site. source Shutterstock

TripAdvisor users report that the site has deleted their accounts of being raped and assaulted while traveling. The users say they were told their reviews were deemed hearsay or unsuitable for the family-friendly site. The site makes money from hotels that pay commissions and advertising fees. A TripAdvisor spokesperson said that the company will introduce a new “badge” notification system.

The travel booking and review website TripAdvisor is built on trust between itself, its users, and the businesses that receive reviews and customers from the site.

But that trust is breaking in dangerous ways, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, which found numerous examples of users reporting first-hand accounts of rape and assault in reviews for hotels and resorts, only to find that their testimonies had been removed by the site.

The users were given a variety of reasons for the deletions, from accusations of hearsay to violations of the site’s family-friendly policy. In one case, at least three users reported being raped or sexually assaulted at the same Mexican resort, only to find that their posts had been removed. The deletion of these reviews has likely resulted in subsequent travelers being put in harm’s way.

“Maybe we wouldn’t have gone or maybe that wouldn’t have happened to me,” Jamie Valeri, a mother of six from Wisconsin, told the Journal Sentinel, speculating as to how she might have been able to avoid being assaulted had a review of a prior guest’s similar experience not been removed from the site.

caption A scene from the Grand Velas Riviera Maya, one of the hotels where a sexual assault allegedly took place. source Facebook.com/gvrivieramaya

Like other review sites, TripAdvisor must strike a delicate balance between allowing users to speak freely and protecting businesses from lies or exaggerations, but it’s worth noting that the company receives advertising revenue and commissions from some hotels and resorts.

The company has a review filter and employees who monitor reviews they may deem unsuitable for the site. This review infrastructure includes some users and partners who work at or near the destinations that users can book on TripAdvisor, though the company has not been clear about how either are chosen.

A TripAdvisor spokesperson provided the following comment to Business Insider:
====================
Schedule of Classes

Class Search Disclaimer: Course data on this page may be up to 24 hours old. Subject Area: Anthropology - ANTH Art - ART Art (Creative Studies) - ART CS Art History - ARTHI Art Studio - ARTST Asian American Studies - AS AM Astronomy - ASTRO Biology - BIOL Biology (Creative Studies) - BIOL CS Biomolecular Science and Engineering - BMSE Black Studies - BL ST Chemical Engineering - CH E Chemistry (Creative Studies) - CHEM CS Chemistry and Biochemistry - CHEM Chicano Studies - CH ST Chinese - CHIN Classics - CLASS Communication - COMM Comparative Literature - C LIT Computer Science - CMPSC Computer Science (Creative Studies) - CMPSCCS Computing (Creative Studies) - CMPTG Computing (Creative Studies) - CMPTGCS Counseling, Clinical, School Psychology - CNCSP Dance - DANCE Dynamical Neuroscience - DYNS Earth Science - EARTH East Asian Cultural Studies - EACS Ecology, Evolution & Marine Biology - EEMB Economics - ECON Education - ED Electrical Computer Engineering - ECE Engineering Sciences - ENGR English - ENGL Environmental Science & Management - ESM Environmental Studies - ENV S Exercise & Sport Studies - ESS Exercise Sport - ES Feminist Studies - FEMST Film and Media Studies - FAMST French - FR General Studies (Creative Studies) - GEN S General Studies (Creative Studies) - GEN SCS Geography - GEOG German - GER Global Peace and Security - GPS Global Studies - GLOBL Graduate Division - GRAD Greek - GREEK Hebrew - HEB History - HIST Interdisciplinary - INT Interdisciplinary (Creative Studies) - INT CS Italian - ITAL Japanese - JAPAN Korean - KOR Latin - LATIN Latin American and Iberian Studies - LAIS Linguistics - LING Literature (Creative Studies) - LIT Literature (Creative Studies) - LIT CS Marine Science - MARSC Materials - MATRL Mathematics - MATH Mathematics (Creative Studies) - MATH CS Mechanical Engineering - ME Media Arts and Technology - MAT Medieval Studies - ME ST Middle East Studies - MES Military Science - MS Molecular, Cellular & Develop. Biology - MCDB Music - MUS Music (Creative Studies) - MUS CS Music Performance Laboratories - MUS A Philosophy - PHIL Physics - PHYS Physics (Creative Studies) - PHYS CS Political Science - POL S Portuguese - PORT Psychology - PSY Religious Studies - RG ST Renaissance Studies - RENST Slavic - SLAV Sociology - SOC Spanish - SPAN Speech & Hearing Sciences - SHS Statistics & Applied Probability - PSTAT Technology Management - TMP Theater - THTR Writing - WRIT Writing & Literature (Creative Studies) - W&L Writing & Literature (Creative Studies) - W&L CS Quarter: SPRING 2019 WINTER 2019 FALL 2018 SUMMER 2018 SPRING 2018 WINTER 2018 FALL 2017 SUMMER 2017 SPRING 2017 WINTER 2017 Course Level: Undergraduate Graduate All PLEASE NOTE: Click on primary course row for course and textbook info.

Click on enroll code for restrictions.
====================
American Banker, a daily trade newspaper that has been covering the financial sector since 1836, recently featured an analytical piece by its editor-in-chief Marc Hochstein entitled “How I missed the point of bitcoin,” to demonstrate how Bitcoin has shown what global banking should be.

Fees and speeds

In 2012, Hochstein noted in an article entitled “Lightning fast, dirt cheap: bitcoin shows what banking could be,” that a new peer to peer digital cash system has emerged. Five years ago, Hochstein praised the Bitcoin network’s ability to settle transactions with low fees and at fast speeds without the necessity and involvement of intermediaries or mediators.

The decentralized nature of Bitcoin remains identical but what has changed in Bitcoin is its fee and settlement speed. Due to the explosive growth of the Bitcoin network and its market, average Bitcoin transaction fees have increased beyond $2.5. In addition, at certain periods wherein the Bitcoin mempool, the holding area of Bitcoin transactions for the miners, is full of unconfirmed transactions, the confirmation of transactions can take hours.

However, Hochstein remains optimistic towards the core principles and functions of Bitcoin that include the settlement of transactions and transfer of data in a decentralized, transparent and fair manner. Although Bitcoin transactions can cost up to $2.5, scaling solutions such as the Bitcoin Core development team’s transaction malleability fix segregated witness (SegWit) are imminent.

After all, Bitcoin is a technology and it is in its early stage. Like all Blockchain networks, Bitcoin is in the process of scaling and addressing the rapid growth of its user base.

For instance, in the past 12 months, the most popular and widely utilized wallet platform Blockchain added more users (seven mln) than it did throughout the seven-year period from 2009 to 2016. Discussions and complaints on the rapidly rising fees of Bitcoin transactions completely ignore some of these statistics that demonstrate the unexpectedly fast growth of the Bitcoin network.

@blockchain added more users (7 million) in the past 12 months than it did throughout 2009 to 2016. Explosive growth of #bitcoin! pic.twitter.com/9QcOh2UTPA — Joseph Young (@iamjosephyoung) June 24, 2017

Financial privacy and cost-effectiveness

Since its launch, the problem Bitcoin went on to solve was not the high fees of banking services nor the issuance of an anonymous financial network. Financial privacy and cost-effectiveness came as byproducts of Bitcoin’s actual purpose. As Marc Hochstein wrote, Bitcoin’s primary focus was to establish a global digital cash system that is censorship-resistant and decentralized.

“No, the key thing about bitcoin is its censorship-resistance — something that I only obliquely touched on in my original post, when I mentioned that the currency could be used to purchase drugs on the dark web or send donations to WikiLeaks, which was then operating under a blockade by the major payment networks,” wrote Hochstein.
====================
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - With a recent flurry of winter storms doing little to dampen California’s latest drought, the nation’s biggest public utility voted on Tuesday to impose water rationing in Los Angeles for the first time in nearly two decades.

Rain clouds hang over the West Los Angeles area, February 13, 2009. REUTERS/Sam Mircovich

Under the plan adopted in principle by the governing board of the L.A. Department of Water and Power, homes and businesses would pay a penalty rate — nearly double normal prices — for any water they use in excess of a reduced monthly allowance.

The five-member board plans to formally vote on details of the measure next month.

The rationing scheme is expected to take effect in May unless the City Council acts before then to reject it — a move seen as unlikely since Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa called for the measure under a water-shortage plan last week.

The only other time such penalty pricing was imposed to force conservation in the nation’s second biggest city was a rationing system put into effect for a year starting in March 1991, at the height of California’s last statewide drought.

That measure cut citywide water use by about 25 percent, DWP spokesman Joseph Ramallo said.

The DWP board also voted unanimously to restrict lawn sprinkler use to two days a week, as urged by the mayor. Outdoor irrigation accounts for 40 percent of residential water use in the city, DWP officials say.

The agency is the largest municipal utility in the United States, supplying water and electricity to some 3.8 million households and businesses in Los Angeles.

San Diego and other cities throughout California are weighing similar measures to cope with a water shortage that is adding to the woes of a state beset with rising unemployment, high mortgage foreclosure rates and a budget crisis.

DROP IN THE BUCKET

The snowpack in the Sierra Nevada mountain range, one of the state’s chief sources of fresh surface water, is far below normal, and reservoirs fed by Sierra runoff are badly depleted as well, due to a statewide drought now in its third year.

State water managers have said the current dry spell could prove to be the worst ever in California, owing to rising demands from steady population growth.

Recent heavy rains, and mountain snowfall, have provided a welcome respite from California’s driest January on record, but “this latest set of storms did not get us out of the woods by any means,” water manager James McDaniel told the DWP board.

Complicating matters are federal court restrictions on water that can be pumped from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta in northern California, which furnishes much of the state’s irrigation and drinking supplies, in order to protect endangered fish species.

As a result, state water managers have cut the amount of delta water they provide to irrigation districts and cities around the state to 15 percent of their usual contracted allotment for the year and may curb those deliveries further.

Another major source of imported water to Southern California, the Colorado River basin, is emerging from an eight-year drought, but its reservoirs remain low.
====================
Michael Moore has claimed that Donald Trump will get Americans killed in a new Facebook post.

The Oscar-winning director, whose latest film, Michael Moore in TrumpLand, was a critique on the president-elect, believes that the reality TV star and WWE Hall of Famer will prove to be an unsuitable and dangerous leader. He took aim at Trump’s claim that he has only attended a handful of security briefings.

Michael Moore has a 'morning after to-do list' for how to save America Read more

“Most would agree the #1 job of the leader of any country is to keep its people safe,” Moore wrote in a post entitled “Donald Trump is going to get us killed”. “There is no more important meeting every day for the president than the one where he learns what the day’s potential threats are to the country. That Trump would find it too cumbersome or too annoying to have to sit through 20 minutes of listening to his top intelligence people tell him who’s trying to kill us today, simply boggles the mind.”

He goes on to call Trump’s tweets “angry” and “childish” and a waste of time when he should be focusing on more important national issues. Moore also warns about what might happen if a terrorist attack happens in the US.

“So, my fellow Americans, when the next terrorist attack happens – and it will happen, we all know that – and after the tragedy is over, amidst the death and destruction that might have been prevented, you will see Donald Trump acting quickly to blame everyone but himself,” he wrote. “He will suspend constitutional rights. He will round up anyone he deems a threat. He will declare war, and his Republican Congress will back him. And no one will remember that he wasn’t paying attention to the growing threat. Wasn’t attending the daily national security briefings. Was playing golf instead or meeting with celebrities or staying up til 3am tweeting about how unfair CNN is.”

Moore also compares the carelessness of Trump to that of George Bush and how his inattentive nature was a similar threat to the safety of Americans, but implies that the new president will be even worse. “This utter neglect of duty, a daily snub at the people who work to protect us, the first Commander-in-Chief to literally be AWOL and announcing proudly he isn’t going to change – this, I assure you, is going to get a lot of innocent people killed,” he wrote.



Moore has also revealed plans to protest at Trump’s inauguration with a non-violent disruption but will be keeping the details secret.
====================
Don't smile, Grumpy Cat, or else risk losing your new endorsement deal with Friskies. That's correct—the cat food maker has inked a "spokescat" agreement with the frowny feline that's become a Web photo phenomena during the last year.

Owned by Tabatha Bundesen of Phoenix, Ariz., the female white-and-brown cat—her real name is Tardar Sauce—became a social media sensation a year ago when a particularly surly-but-endearing photo was posted on Reddit. Grumpy Cat's Facebook page has since grown to 1.3 million fans, and the kitty accrued 111,000 Twitter followers.

But it's not the first product for the cat, which helped launch a "Grumppucino" coffee drink five weeks ago. Grumpy Cat also reportedly has a movie in the works.

"She's very busy," Friskies spokeswoman Julie Catron told the Associated Press. "The first thing she'll do for us is receive the lifetime achievement award."

Indeed, Grumpy Cat will garner that distinction Oct. 15 in New York as the St. Louis-based Friskies awards the best cat videos of 2013 as chosen by consumers via an online vote.

With so many furry critters potentially on the premises, marketers for allergies medicine Claritin might want to set up a shop outside the event.
====================
Skin retouching is a delicate art.

Effective skin retouching can feel like a black art.

There have been various methods detailed in the past for ways to “smooth” skin in GIMP. Those methods ranged from disappointing at best to downright ridiculous at worst. The disappointing methods were simply a product of the best methods available at the time. The ridiculous ones seemed to be due to a lack of subtlety.

Subtlety

Subtlety is a key requirement when approaching skin retouching. There are certainly exceptions when required (high-fashion for instance) but it should always be approached from a minimalist perspective first.

Too often retouching skin is approached with a very heavy hand. In an attempt to “clean” the skin many will chase every last drop of detail out of an image, resulting in a fake and overly smoothed result (making mannequins). This is bad.

To reiterate: This is bad.

Real skin has pores, bumps, spots, color, and other interesting things going on. The goal shouldn’t be to remove those characteristics, but rather to make some them less pronounced as needed. A good rule of thumb is:

“Never do more than good makeup can achieve.”

Of course, some makeup artists are magicians. In fact, it can be very helpful to go out and research how they work and what their process and reasons are. This can help you understand better how to approach all manner of retouching, particularly when using techniques like dodging/burning and color theory (as it relates to makeup and skin).

Keep in mind the context as well. Candid images may only require a very minimum of retouching (if at all), while a fashion shoot may desire a stronger application. For the best results, it helps to have a clear vision of what you want to achieve.

Blurring

One method of smoothing skin that can be found in many old tutorials on the subject involves using some variation of blurring the base image and masking the blurred regions into the image. In theory the idea may seem sound but fails quickly on closer inspection.

A combination of the broad effects of blurring coupled with the indiscriminate application across all the textures in the skin make this a less than ideal approach. All of those pores, spots, bumps, and colors get lost when using an indiscriminate function such as blurring the image. While there may be a desire to remove some of those details, visually our eyes are expecting for there to be some sort of texture and detail there. Loss of those details is what pushes the results into “mannequin” territory.

Mannequin territory “White male mannequin head in storefront window” by Horia Varlan (cb)

Overall, this method should not even be considered as an option for skin retouching. The results are never good and are indiscriminately too destructive to the image.

High Pass/Low Pass Frequency Separation

A slightly more advanced way to approach skin retouching is to use a “high pass/low pass” (or “high frequency/low frequency”, or just “frequency separation”) technique to separate the image into two layers. One layer would contain all of the high-frequency (fine) details while the other layer would contain the low-frequency (coarse) information.

Mairi

The resulting layers can look strange to those not accustomed to seeing them. The important thing to notice is the ability to isolate all high frequency details on a separate layer. This allows us to independently modify the colors/tones from the details.

Low Frequency (left) and High Frequency (right)

Created with a blur radius of 15px

Create Frequency Separated Layers

Creating the frequency separated layers is relatively easy in GIMP. Starting with the base image layer:

Duplicate base layer

[Layer → Duplicate Layer] Name it “LF” Apply a Gaussian Blur to the “LF” layer

[Filters → Blur → Gaussian Blur] Choose an appropriate radius to isolate your desired high-frequency details (15px in the example)

The blur radius is ~1.5% of the width of the face Change “LF” layer blend mode to Grain Extract Create a new layer from visible

[Layer → New from Visible] Name it “HF”

Change “HF” layer blend mode to Grain Merge Change “LF” layer blend mode back to Normal

Visually, the result should look identical to the original base layer. Technically the separated frequency layers now allow for much finer targeted editing. The layers for the image will now have an HF layer (in Grain Merge blend mode) over a LF layer:

Layers after going through a frequency separation.

The choice of radius for the Gaussian Blur operation will determine the level of details that get separated from the low-frequency layer. Smaller blur radii will isolate finer details (conversely larger radii include larger details).

Skin Retouching with Frequency Separation

Consider now the results from the separation. In particular notice which types of skin features occur in each layer.

Pores, light wrinkles, crows-feet, and small details are separated into the HF layer, while larger skin tones remain on the LF layer. Overall skin tones can be evened out out by smoothing the tones in the low frequency layer.

A note on smoothing There are various ways of softening details on the different layers.

The standard Gaussian Blur is one method that works well and quickly. Filters → Blur → Gaussian Blur…

A better method might be using a Selective Gaussian Blur to only blur certain areas (based on the value difference between the pixel in consideration and its neighbors). Filters → Blur → Selective Gaussian Blur…

If G’MIC is installed, there is also access to a bilateral blur filter (similar to Surface Blur in Adobe Photoshop) that is also an edge-preserving blur function. Filters → G’MIC…

Repair → Smooth [bilateral]

When considering a face for skin retouching it’s often best to consider each general contour area of the face separately. This is mostly due to different areas of the skin having different characteristics (ie: forehead wrinkles are often at a different scale than crows feet or smile lines).

Below is one example of a good starting point for contour consideration when smoothing. The key is to vary the smoothing intensity for each region to obtain a good result. There may not be a change required all the time, but it’s a good habit to get into for when it is needed.

Areas of smoothing consideration

A good place to start is often to address any “blotchiness” or uneven tones in the skin. (Ideally this would be addressed through the use of foundation makeup.) As seen above, those types of tones can be found on the Low Frequency layer.

Following the contour areas from above a Bilateral Blur (from G’MIC) is used to smooth the regions. When using the Free Select Tool to select a region, remember to enable Feather edges from the tool options to make a smooth transition from the working area to the surrounding image.

Filters → G’MIC…

Repair → Smooth [bilateral]

The defaults of spatial variance: 10, value variance: 7, and iterations: 2 are used.

After smoothing the LF layer with a bilateral blur

Click to compare to original

Visually, smoothing the Low Frequency skin tones provides a marked improvement to the perceived quality. Importantly, notice that none of the finer details have been modified (wrinkles, pores, etc…).

At this point, regular workflows could still be used such as spot healing or dodging & burning (on either LF or HF layers as needed).

HF/LF Summary

High/Low frequency separation is a great tool to approach skin retouching due to it’s ability to allow a retoucher to approach the work in discrete layers.

If one wanted to isolate a series of frequencies, then things get a little trickier. It would require the user to generate HF/LF separately for each size they wanted to isolate. The workflow would be along the lines of do the separation, retouch, do the separation again for a different size, retouch. Rinse and repeat.

It turns out that there is already a very handy way to isolate multiple frequencies at once and still have a visual means of combining them easily to see the edits as they are being made: Wavelet Decompose.

Wavelet Decompose

Wavelet Decompose allows you to generate multiple High Frequency layers (and a Low Frequency “Residual” layer) all at once. Each of the HF layers use the Grain Merge layer blending mode so that the composite image is reconstituted correctly. This allows the retoucher to make modifications to any of the scale (frequency) layers while seeing the results immediately on the canvas.

Getting Wavelet Decompose [Plugin] The original plugin for Wavelet Decompose by the user marcor on the GIMP registry can be found here: Wavelet Decompose [registry.gimp.org]

Once installed the command is: Filters → Generic → Wavelet Decompose …

Getting Wavelet Decompose [Script-Fu] There is also a Script-Fu version by Christoph A. Traxler that can be downloaded from us here: Wavelet Decompose Script-Fu [pixls.us]

Once installed the command is: Image → Wavelet Decompose …

The advantage to using a wavelet decomposition over a simple HF/LF separation is cases where there may be details of a different size than your HF layer that you still want to isolate.

Wavelet Decomposed to 5 levels

Click to view equalized levels and enhance details

Examining the equalized version of the previous image immediately shows the various scale features isolated through the decomposition. In particular, the top row shows the finest details while the bottom row shows broad details with the color residual layer last.

With the various detail scales separated, the retoucher can easily make modifications on any given scale while seeing the results directly on the canvas. This is due to the detail scale layers being set to “Grain Merge” blending mode in GIMP.

Application

Use of wavelet scales for retouching are done similarly to using a frequency separation. The major difference is choosing which detail scale to apply the smoothing operations to, and at what intensity.

I have found that a good workflow is to generally start at the largest detail scale. Experiment with smoothing methods and parameters until a good result is achieved without going too far. If needed, repeat the operations with different parameters on the next smaller detail scale (with reduced parameters).

For this example, running the Bilateral Blur from G’MIC with the same values as in the Frequency Separation example above yields:

Click to compare: Original Low Frequency Smooth Wavelet Smooth

The smoothing of the largest detail scale produces pleasing skin tones without removing too many details.

Having the detail scales separated out also allow for spot modifications without disrupting the textures of other scale layers. For example, there is some slight skin discoloration on the models lit cheek:

A small color tone difference to repair.

By working on the color (low-frequency) Residual layer, the color tones can be evened out using a Heal Brush and sampling from nearby skin.

After healing the area on the Residual color layer

Click to compare to original

Notice in particular that the fine details that make up the skin composition here are not modified. Wrinkles, pores, and skin texture are kept intact while the underlying color tones for that region are blended smoothly into the surrounding area.

This same technique can come in very handy for lightening under eyes that might have dark circles under them, for instance.

Spot Healing

Once the skin tones have been smoothed as desired work can continue with spot healing discrete problems as needed. Simple skin blemishes that are discrete are best approached with a spot healing tool after the global skin tones have been modified (to avoid having to apply the healing on all of the detail layers one at a time).

Example: Nikki

A good image to see what this approach can accomplish is the lede image to this article, Nikki. This is a crop from the raw image untouched:

Crop from Nikki, no retouching.

To follow along you can download the full-size base image (360KB).

Running Wavelet decompose (plugin) against the image with the default of 5 scales,

Filters → Generic → Wavelet decompose …

will leave the image with layers that look like this:

Detail scales and residual layers from Wavelet decompose

What We’re Targeting

After running a wavelet decompose on a layer there is a very simple method of exaggerating the details that will be targeted for smoothing the skin tones. Simply toggle off the visibility of the Wavelet residual layer:

Nikki with only the detail scales visible over the base image (no residual layer).

I highly recommend that you do not do this with the subject in the room! Nobody looks good when the residual scale is removed from the image stack…

But it does nicely exaggerate the types of tonal variations that are prime candidates for smoothing and suppression.

Regions

Similar to the regions previously shown, we will walk through the retouching process based on that type of facial contour: forehead, nose, cheeks, chin, and lip.

I’ll normally use the Free Select Tool with a feathered radius around one-half an iris length (~30px in this case). The radius value is mostly arbitrary and serves only to smooth the transition from areas being worked on (so adjust to taste). I will also usually select regions as I go and remember to save the selections to a channel to make it easier to come back to them later if desired:

Select → Save to Channel

Crop from Nikki, no retouching.

Wavelet Decompose is run on the layer using the default number of wavelet detail scales: 5.

Forehead

With the forehead region selected a first pass can be made to smooth out the tones. As mentioned previously, we’ll start on the largest detail scale Wavelet scale 5.

Wavelet Scale 5

Due to the size of the blemishes in this area, a slightly more aggressive smoothing amount can be used and adjusted to taste. A Bilateral Blur can be used again, with slightly higher values than default:

Spatial variance: 15

Value variance: 12

Iterations: 2

Those parameters do a good job of initially dampening the skin tones here:

Bilateral Blur on Wavelet scale 5 results

Click to compare to original

Wavelet Scale 4

There are still some uneven tones that were not affected by the smoothing on scale 5. These are mostly smaller tones around blemishes. So continuing with the same region, but now working on Wavelet scale 4 should help dampen those even further.

Using the bilateral blur again with smaller parameter values than previously:

Spatial variance: 7

Value variance: 4

Iterations: 1

These values are determined through experimentation on the image. They are tuned in iterations until the result is visually pleasing, then dialed back a little bit more.

Bilateral Blur on Wavelet scale 4 results

Click to compare to original

At this point, most of the skin tones have been evened out and what is left is mostly discrete skin blemishes that can be cleaned up with a heal tool later. Working on just two wavelet scales significantly decreased the prominence of the blemishes and the overall smoothness of the tones.

Nose

There is not as much smoothing required on the nose (vs. the forehead). An initial pass on Wavelet scale 5 with the default bilateral blur values:

Spatial variance: 10

Value variance: 7

Iterations: 2

helps to even the underlying tones nicely. A second pass on Wavelet scale 4 with much lower values on the blur help to smooth the slightly finer details as well:

Spatial variance: 5

Value variance: 2

Iterations: 1

These two passes result in this for the nose:

Smoothing on scales 5 & 4 results

Click to compare to original

Cheeks

Similar to the first pass on the nose, the cheeks can use an initial smoothing on Wavelet scale 5 with the default values for the bilateral blur.

Smoothing the cheeks on wavelet scale 5

Click to compare to original

To finish the cheeks a slight smoothing on scale 4 with slight values,

Spatial variance: 5

Value variance: 2

Iterations: 1

This smooths just a bit more than previously usually without being too much (if it is too much, dial it back of course).

Smoothing the cheeks on wavelet scale 4

Click to compare to previous step

When clicking to compare in the above image, notice that the result of smoothing with low values on scale 4 are subtle but they are there. Combined with the previous step the overall result is a much visually smoother looking complexion without smearing details.

Chin & Lip

Considering both the upper lip and chin, and as before a good starting point is to try the default bilateral blur values on the largest scale (scale 5).

Spatial variance: 10

Value variance: 7

Iterations: 2

Smoothing the chin with default bilateral blur values

Click to compare to original

Similar to the previous step a further refinement of the skin tones can be achieved by smoothing on the next detail scale down, wavelet scale 4. As before, using slight values:

Spatial variance: 5

Value variance: 2

Iterations: 2

Will produce a nice finishing to the detail tones in this area:

Further refining the chin and lip with smaller blur values on wavelet scale 4

Click to compare to previous step

Results (Wavelet Smoothing Only)

This process relied only on smoothing the tones on the largest detail scales, 4 & 5. Without doing any targeted modifications (beyond regions) here are the final results:

End result working only on wavelet scales 4 & 5

Click to compare to original

This is a fantastic base to continue working from (particularly when compared to the starting original image). A few areas of spot healing as needed would be enough to make a great final image from here.

The concept to keep in mind when working with Wavelet scales is to build up a series of small changes that together will produce a pleasing visual result.

At this point only a few minor spot corrections and some color toning are required to reach a pleasing final result:

Final result after spot corrections and color toning

Click to compare to Wavelet smoothing only

Moderation

As with many things in life, moderation is the key here. Visually it can be helpful to occasionally check your image results zoomed far out. If an image looks too smooth when zoomed out then dial it back.

Remember that this is an inherently destructive process and should be used as little as needed to get a desired result.

Resources

You can download the sample Mairi and Nikki GIMP .XCF files used to create the examples above here:

These are compressed GIMP .xcf files (hence the .xcf.bz2 file extensions). They should open directly in GIMP (created in 2.8.14) without problem.

Further Reading

This tutorial is a combination of material originally posted here:

The original wavelet decompose plugin from user marcor on registry.gimp.org (the one I use usually):

A Script-Fu version of Wavelet Decompose by Christoph A. Traxler. Place the .scm file into your scripts folder and the menu option “Wavelet Decompose …” will be under the Image menu:
====================
Trying to make access to the world’s largest cryptocurrency automatic for the people, BitAccess is looking to build a network of automated Bitcoin banking machines available worldwide.

The concept of a Bitcoin ATM isn’t new, with companies like Robocoin Technologies, GenesisCoin, Lamassu Bitcoin Ventures, and BitXatm all launching variations on bitcoin transaction hardware, but BitAccess touts an incredibly easy interface, a broader vision of how new hardware can be used, and the fact that it is the only player manufacturing its own transaction hardware.

“All you need is a phone number and a dollar,” to get a unit of Bitcoin says Haseeb Awan, one of the four co-founders behind BitAccess.

Awan and his three co-founders met in Ottawa, Canada at a startup weekend competition and then later worked together at a local accelerator there where they were each developing different ideas. Awan was working on a payment system for parking, Ryan Wallace was developing faster checkout technologies, Mohammad Adam was developing a point of sale technology for Bitcoin and Vignesh Sundaresan was developing a cryptocurrency exchange.

Beyond shared interests, the four were keenly aware of the problems associated with getting Bitcoin in the hands of the general public, beyond the hardcore community which had grown up around the cryptocurrency and exchange platform.

“There was a lack of trust,” says Awan. “What we wanted was when you wanted to get Bitcoin you could just walk up to a machine.” So the four began working together in November 2013 and launched their first machine on January 1st, 2014.

The entrepreneurs installed their first machine in Decentral, the startup incubator dedicated to financial technology innovation.

From those humble beginnings the company applied for and was accepted into the latest Y Combinator cohort, from which they’re just launching. They’ve also managed to line up customers in 40 cities, and are already operating in 20 cities, with new ATMs shipping every day.

“Our focus is on how people can use this ATM as a platform,” Awan says. He sees the BitAccess kiosks as a hardware platform for multiple applications. Instead of just exchanging currency for cryptocurrency, Awan envisions developers building additional transaction tech to run on BitAccess machines. The company launched an API this month so people can develop other tools for just that purpose.

Anything from money transfers between individuals to eventually exchanges of other types of digital contracts could run over the BitAccess network of machines, Awan says.

Here’s how a basic transaction works. The machine prompts users to enter their telephone number and then a code is texted to the that number. Once it’s received the person enters that code into the machine and is prompted on whether they’d like to buy a certain amount of Bitcoin. If the answer is yes, the machine then prompts the user for their bitcoin wallet.

If a user doesn’t have a wallet, the machine generates a piece of paper which is the amount of Bitcoin they’ve acquired — think of it like a cryptocurrency version of a dollar bill, except the value is however many Bitcoins or Satoshis the user has exchanged currency to receive. The machine then texts a receipt of the transaction to a user’s cell phone.

“We are expanding globally right now,” says Awan. “The ultimate goal is to have a global network of these machines where you can transfer fiat currency and Bitcoin. It’s an infrastructure play.”
====================
Life expectancy around the world has risen dramatically, by 11 years for men and 12 years for women over the last four decades, but we are paying the price in more mental and physical health problems, according to the biggest-ever study of the global burden of disease.

A massive international research project, which took five years and involved 500 people, has produced the most comprehensive and ambitious database of the world's health ever attempted. It shows dramatic changes since 1970, with the rapid decline in deaths from infectious diseases and malnutrition and the vastly improved survival of small children.

Most deaths in the world are now from heart disease and stroke, which killed an estimated 12·9 million people in 2010, a quarter of the global total.

High blood pressure is the biggest risk factor for death today – responsible for 9.4 million deaths and 7% of disability – followed by smoking, which caused 6.3 million deaths. Alcohol comes third, responsible for five million deaths worldwide, but a massive issue in eastern Europe, where it causes almost a quarter of all disease, and a serious problem also in Latin America. Physical inactivity and diet – particularly those with high levels of sodium or salt and low levels of fruit consumption – were responsible for 12.5 million deaths.

With lengthening lives, however, the biggest issue for humanity may well be disability. Although we live longer, we do not necessarily enjoy more years of health. In the two decades to 2010, men's life expectancy increased by 4.7 years and women's by 5.1 years – but the extra years of good health were only 3.9 years and 4 years respectively, which suggests that illness and disability are taking a greater toll of our lives than they were 20 years ago. The biggest problems are mental illness, including anxiety, musculoskeletal pain and sight and hearing loss.

Women in four countries however – Japan, Singapore, South Korea and Spain – have a healthy life expectancy greater than 70 years. In no country do men enjoy the same length of healthy life and only in Afghanistan, Jordan and Mali do they live longer in good health than women. Japanese women also have the longest life expectancy, living on average almost to 86, while the longest lived men are in Iceland, with life expectancy of 80 years.

The findings that people are living longer but with worse health could trigger a rethink not only in our expectations but also the way all health systems work.

"We're finding that very few people are walking around with perfect health and that, as people age, they accumulate health conditions," said Dr Christopher Murray, director of the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation of the University of Washington, which led the work published by the Lancet medical journal and launched at the Royal Society in London.

"At an individual level, this means we should re-calibrate what life will be like for us in our 70s and 80s. It also has profound implications for health systems as they set priorities."
====================
Victorian London is something we think we know. The architecture and urban planning of the era remain visible in today’s 21st century metropolis, while TV programmes like Ripper Street, Jekyll and Hyde and the forthcoming festive treat, Dickensian, celebrate its culture, both high and low.



It was no surprise, therefore, when Ubisoft decided to set the latest instalment of its historical action adventure series Assassin’s Creed in the 19th century capital. Following the members of a secretive assassination sect from the 12th century to the modern day, the games have already taken in Renaissance Italy and Revolutionary France; the promise of the series is that you get to explore cities and cultures at key moments in time, investigating their iconic buildings as you carry out your missions.

But does the historical tourism of Syndicate actually give us any viable insight into 19th century London? To find out, the Guardian sat down to play the game with Alana Harris, a social and cultural historian of modern Britain at King’s College London and filmed the experience. This is what we discovered.

Politics

The Assassin’s Creed series often features historical figures who provide missions to the lead character, helping to anchor the game’s fictitious plot in an authentic setting. In Syndicate, Karl Marx provides a series of tasks relevant to his trade union activity during this period. It’s an inclusion that Harris finds immediately intriguing. “The interesting thing in concentrating on Marx is that you’re also getting a sense of the connections between London and the European continent and the cross-fertilisation of European ideas and political ideas,” she says.

Gladstone and Disraeli also appear, but Harris laments the missed opportunity to include lesser known characters of Victorian politics. The extension of enfranchisement is mentioned (the game takes place after the second reform act), but only in the context of working men. “Why no John Stuart Mill, and the proposal for the extension of the franchise to women?” asks Harris. “In some ways I would have thought he’d be a much more interesting character to focus on if you open out a gendered perspective on political discontent.”

In some ways, the game confirms common beliefs that the Victorian period was a time of class struggle, with gender issues arriving later in the early 20th century via the suffragettes. Syndicate missed a chance to explore some interesting and lesser known elements in women’s history, which might have been a great way of engaging with the period.

Child labour

Children run about the streets in Syndicate, often shoeless, searching through piles of rubbish. It is a familiar depiction of poverty in the 19th century city. The game seems to explore the Victorian cult of the innocent child – the Dickensian picture of innocent cherubs waiting to be saved.

However, Harris argues that the game’s jarring mechanic of allowing players to “liberate” a select few children working in a factory is an example of us imposing our own anachronistic views of Victorian London onto the past. “Child labour was an ongoing concern for the Victorians, and there were concerted efforts to address it, particularly as we start to move into the 1870’s and 80’s with the Education Acts,” she says. “But, of course, the ongoing issue was the need for child labour to actually supplement the family income, so if we’re liberating these children, what are we liberating them to? And what does this actually mean for their families and the family structures that were dependent on their wage?

“The socio-economic underpinning that was the reason behind child labour and the persistence of child labour, despite the efforts of various authorities to address this, is not acknowledged in the liberation strategy. The game has a very reductive understanding of what liberation for children might have meant in 1868.”

Prostitution and gender

Prostitutes are notably absent across the landscape of Syndicate’s London, despite the fact that prostitution was the cause of both moral and medical panic throughout society at the time. The issue also represents an interesting clash between modern culture and an engagement with women’s history.

“In the wake of Contagious Diseases Act, there was an opportunity to engage critically with the issue of the regulation of prostitution and a feminist debate around this too, which might have added a really interesting dimension to this,” says Harris. “Josephine Butler campaigned to protect female prostitutes and to acknowledge [prostitution] as a wider social and moral issue. Perhaps that is too much to expect of the game.”

It’s interesting that, although Ubisoft made a big deal of including a female protagonist – the resourceful assassin Evie Frye – there’s no attempt to consider women’s history. Of course, Assassin’s Creed is not a realistic series; it’s a game where you can leap from buildings and land safely in a pile of leaves. Furthermore, why should the character have to deal with women’s issues just because she happens to be female?

However, including a protagonist who has agency in a time when women had none could have lead to some enlightening moments – without recognition, it’s jarring. Syndicate is willing to address issues such as child labour, but sanitises race and gender. Perhaps it’s about distancing: in some ways child labour is a problem that’s been “solved” in the modern west, but race and gender issues are still very much ongoing. The game backs away from drawing parallels. As Harris says: “There’s an ahistorical representation of women here and whether that actually fully engages with the issues of women’s history, or gender history for that matter, it’s a missed opportunity perhaps.”

It seems like our first real engagement with prostitution will be through the brutally murdered victims of Jack the Ripper, whose crimes are set to form the basis of an extra downloadable mission for the game. The recent controversy over the Jack the Ripper museum has shown the necessity of tackling these murders with both insight and sensitivity. The Whitechapel murderer became a kind of bogeyman to Victorian Londoners, but to treat the killer as a kind of mythical monster demeans the lives he took.

The challenge for Syndicate’s developers will be presenting the lurid details of the murders, and the voyeurism of the Victorian press, without asking players to become voyeurs ourselves. “It is difficult, and it’s something that the museum of London in its crime exhibition has been wrestling with too,” says Harris. “Can you actually engage with a social construction of crime which was intensely eroticised and fetishised in the Victorian period and actually move beyond that, to do something critical with it, to enable an analysis that doesn’t enter into that same problematic process of fetishising crime, and gendered violence?”

Commerce and diversity

One element Harris found missing from Syndicate’s depiction of London was its lack of diversity. Although aesthetically impressive, the docks and East End are lacking in the communities that made London so cosmopolitan and fuelled its commercial growth. Characters like Henry Green, Duleep Singh in The Last Maharajah downloadable content, and the Scottish train driver Agnes MacBean allude to London being a major site of immigration for both those around the empire and within Britain, but there are few examples within London itself.

It is not unusual for Victorian London to be portrayed as a predominantly white, predominantly English city. According to Harris, historians have only just started to really explore the various immigrant communities of the time. “The more recent waves of historiographers would point out that this is the heart of the empire and echoes the diversity of the empire in a bustling metropolis,” she says.

Official documents from the era only tell part of the story. For example, the primarily South Asian Lascar sailors were meant to stay on their ships when they arrived in London and would leave very quickly. However, through non-official documents we know that this was not the case: many Lascar sailors settled in London. There are cases of mixed race families and communities on the docks, and we have evidence of a festival that saw around 20,000 Lascar sailors celebrate together.

Although generating art assets for a vast multicultural community may have proved prohibitively time consuming, there are ways Syndicate could have used its intricate architecture to hint at diversity. One interesting example would be the Strangers’ Home for Asiatics, Africans and South Sea Islanders in Limehouse. Although it was run by Christian missionaries in an attempt to convert those who stayed, it also provided a home and a space to worship for thousands of sailors and migrants. In areas associated with specific migrant communities, such as the French in Soho or German communities in Aldgate and Oxford Street, relevant shops and restaurants would have informed players. “Particularly in Whitechapel, there’d be all kinds of opportunities in the streetscape to hint at that diversity,” says Harris.

Architecture and experience

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The game captures the architectural detail of Victorian London perfectly

The Victorian London we encounter in the game, much like the other historical cities we find in the series, is more of an adventure playground than a simulation – which, perhaps, is the point.

“In a way the emphasis is on a special understanding of London, a mapping of London,” says Harris. “1868 is a very appropriate setting for this; the modern London we know has been constructed at this point, this is the year we have the Holborn Viaduct, we have Paddington Station, we have a whole raft of famous landmarks and sites that you can connect with. I guess that’s probably been constructed with a mind to the international appeal of the game too, a way of connecting to London – a historical tourism.”



Assassin’s Creed as learning tool?

So could this game be used as a historical teaching aid? Harris is unconvinced. Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate is a fantastic visual representation of Victorian London. “The amount of detail, the aesthetic, the meticulous attention to the roofscapes and chimney stacks, I think it’s beautiful,” she says. “In many ways there’s a lot to it if you have a sufficient grounding to be able to decipher, unpack, augment and supplement what’s here, but it works on a fairly superficial level of engagement.”

Syndicate is a fascinating example, then, of what we value in history and the issues of our own society reflected in our interpretations of the past. A few may sigh and drag out the old mantra of “it’s just a game” when we consider Syndicate in such depth, but in a lot of ways that disrespects the medium; we’re classing games lower than historical literature or film by refusing to examine them through the same lens. Games are the narrative medium of the digital age – they deserve to be taken seriously when they depict our world and heritage.

History is not confined to academic papers and the occasional documentary, it is a vital part of creative work. “There’s a historical memory and the reprocessing and repackaging of it is ever present. We need to be mindful of that.”


====================
Nigeria international Obafemi Martins could be leaving the Seattle Sounder for the Chinese Super League, according to sources.

The surge in spending by teams in the Chinese Super League could be about to affect Major League Soccer, with Seattle Sounders forward Obafemi Martins now a target, according to multiple ESPN FC sources.

One source with knowledge of the negotiations emphasized that the situation involving Martins is fluid, but that the Nigerian has attracted interest from multiple Chinese clubs. The source added that Martins is by no means the only MLS player to be pursued by teams in China, though declined to elaborate further.

CSL teams must adhere to a limit of five foreigners, with one of those five coming from Asia. At present, just four of the 16 clubs in China's top flight have an available foreigner slot, but with the CSL transfer window not set to close until Feb. 26, there is still plenty of time for teams to work out a deal to make room for another foreign signing.

The CSL has made news this month due to the vast sums of money that are being spent. The league's transfer record was broken three times in a 10-day span with Brazilian midfielder Ramires moving from Chelsea to Jiangsu Suning for $28.5 million on Jan. 27, Colombian striker Jackson Martinez moving from Atletico Madrid to Guangzhou Evergrande Taobao for $47.2 million on Feb. 3, and Alex Teixeira moving from Shaktar Donetsk to Jiangsu Suning for $56 million two days later.

Martins, 31, joined the Sounders just after the start of the 2013 season, arriving from La Liga side Levante. Since then he has scored 40 goals and added 23 assists in 80 league and playoff appearances, and was named to the MLS Best XI in 2014.

Martins has also played for Reggiana, Inter Milan, Newcastle United, Vfl Wolfsburg, and Rubin Kazan and had a loan spell at Birmingham City.

At international level, Martins has scored 18 goals in 41 games for Nigeria, and was a part of the Super Eagles' squad at the 2010 World Cup. He has also played for Nigeria at the Africa Cup of Nations in 2006, 2008, and 2010.
====================
Foot and vehicle traffic is now frequently snarled by barriers and closed streets in the area, where the prospect of seeing Mr. Trump or another national political figure is a lure for visitors and a headache for high-end shops on the surrounding blocks.

“It is a high-density neighborhood and street traffic easily obstructs pathways to and from the building, making it profoundly challenging for the NYPD to establish a secure perimeter,” Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, wrote, noting that the challenges affected not only Mr. Trump, but other residents of Trump Tower as well as the crowds that pass nearby.

The mayor said the number of officers involved in the round-the-clock security operation — from traffic agents to uniformed officers — was “classified,” but that most were working on overtime, at an extra cost to the city.

The letters, which Mr. de Blasio held up at the news conference — whose primary focus was a monthly police statistics briefing — did not include figures for the cost of security because, a spokesman for the mayor explained, the request would also include continuing security for Mr. Trump after the inauguration and for his wife, Melania, who plans to remain in New York City at least until the couple’s 10-year-old son, Barron, finishes the school year.
====================
A PARISH priest was threatened at gunpoint by masked burglars who broke into his house demanding cash.

A PARISH priest was threatened at gunpoint by masked burglars who broke into his house demanding cash.

His mobile phone was stolen – but he found it the next morning under a tile in his front garden, protected from the rain.

Fr Arthur O'Neill of St Brigid's Parish in Cabinteely, Co Dublin was left shaken after a weapon which appeared to be a machine gun was put to his face during the frightening episode.

The incident happened shortly after 5am yesterday morning, when Fr O'Neill was woken by his house alarm, having unknowingly slept through the smashing of a small downstairs window.

He received a phone-call from the alarm company but thinking it was a mistake, he told them: "Don't ring the second key holder, I'm at home."

When he put the phone down, he turned around to see "a fellow standing with his face covered, holding a machine gun."

Fr O'Neill said he lost his temper at the intruder.

"I insisted on dressing myself because I was just out of bed," he said. He was taken downstairs where another masked burglar shouted instructions to his partner through the broken window. Both men were in their late 20s, he believes.

MENACING

"They were looking for money," said Fr O'Neill, adding that he had advised them that they were "barking up the wrong tree".

Initially he thought the machine gun was a replica – but at one point, it was put to his face and he pushed it away.

"At that point, I thought to myself, 'No, this is real,'" he said, adding that the pair had been "very menacing".

The house was ransacked but nothing of value was found by the burglars who were "getting a tad frustrated," Fr O'Neill revealed.With wry humour, the parish priest told how he believes that he "bored" the thieves away, joking that he had launched into a sermon.

"I asked if they wanted to come down to the church but they didn't want to," said Fr O'Neill, who then opened up the front door and "invited them to leave".

The men did so – taking the priest's mobile phone with them. Fr O'Neill then telephoned the gardai who remained with him for the rest of the morning.

Later on, he used his landline to ring his mobile – and discovered that it had been carefully placed outside.

"It just goes to show that nobody is completely bad," said Fr O'Neill.

Nicola Anderson

Irish Independent
====================
While most of the U.S. is asleep Monday night, an astronomical phenomenon some mark as a sign of God’s judgment will blaze uniquely across the skies of North America.

The first of four, consecutive, total lunar eclipses, which cause a roughly hour-long reddening of the moon known as a “Blood Moon,” will become visible beginning at 12:53 a.m. ET on Tuesday, April 15.

Tuesday’s blood moon is part of a “tetrad,” a set of complete and consecutive lunar eclipses that will continue in roughly six-month intervals until October 2015.

Some consider it nothing more than an alignment of the heavens, but others are watching much more closely, because of the alignment with biblical prophecy.

Some, such as Pastor Mark Biltz, author of “Blood Moons: Decoding the Imminent Heavenly Signs,” have noticed each of the tetrad’s blood moons fall on Jewish holidays through this year and next.

“We are on the verge of witnessing something historic,” said Biltz, who discovered the blood moons phenomenon in 2007. “This has happened only eight times over the last 2,000 years! And the last two times these occurred on the Jewish holidays there was a war in the Middle East regarding the nation of Israel. These are patterns and historical facts that cannot be disregarded. The Jewish Talmud records that total lunar eclipses are indicators or omens for the nation of Israel.”

Biltz will discuss the confluence of astronomical and biblical events during an appearance on “The Today Show,” on Monday, April 15.

Bestselling author and televangelist Pastor John Hagee claims the four blood moons that will soon appear in the skies over America are evidence of a future “world-shaking event.”

And author Doug Drake noted that for sleeping Americans, the appearance of the blood moons over our skies may have special significance.

“Maybe the message is for us ‘sleepers’ here in the United States,” Drake wrote in a blog post. “We have turned from our faith in the God of Bible. Maybe He has a message for us; or maybe not.”

Don’t be left in the dark! Find out everything you need to know about the “Blood Moons” phenomenon. Get the DVD, the autographed book and the calendar direct from the WND Superstore.

Drake recognized the words of the Bible’s 1 Thessalonians 5 speak directly to the signs of the times and those who “sleep” while God is moving:

But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore, let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken be drunken in the night. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and helmet, the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. Wherefore, comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do. (1 Thessalonians 5:1-11 KJV).

And while NASA predicts there will be several tetrads in the 21st century, North Americans will have the best view of the first, beginning Monday night.

“The most unique thing about the 2014-2015 tetrad is that all of them are visible for all or parts of the USA,” NASA eclipse expert Fred Espenak told CNN.

Biltz notes there’s something else unique about this tetrad: it’s convergence with biblical holy days.

The April 15 event, for example, happens during Passover. On Oct. 8, the blood moon will occur during the Feast of Tabernacles, or Sukkot. Another blood moon will occur during Passover on April 4, 2015. The last will happen on Sept. 28, 2015, another Feast of the Tabernacles.

Historically, a tetrad also occurred in 1493, while the Jews were being expelled from Spain. Another tetrad occurred in 1949, soon after the state of Israel was founded. The last tetrad happened in 1967, during the Six-Day War between Arabs and Israelis.

Biltz discovered what has become the “blood moon phenomenon” back in 2007, researching the correlation between when blood moons fell on feast days and key historical world events. He found the divine link between prophecy, heavenly signs, historical events, and when they intersect.

His new book “Blood Moons: Decoding the Imminent Heavenly Signs” details the science of astronomy in light of Bible prophecy. He began to teach and explain his discovery of a series of lunar and solar eclipses that happened at the same time important dates (Passover, Feast of Tabernacles) on the Hebrew calendar.

“Blood Moons” was released nationwide March 18, and has consistently been one of the top books sold on Amazon.com. A full-length documentary produced by WND Films and featuring Biltz was also released the same day.

As Passover nears, millions of people around the world are watching with anticipation for the moon to turn blood red with the first eclipse.

But Biltz said that to really understand the meaning, it’s important to know the seasons, feasts and calendar of the Lord.



Biltz, founder of El Shaddai Ministries, is a well-known commentator on the feasts of the Lord who has spoken in Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, Canada and throughout the United States.

When he appeared on The Jim Bakker Show, host Jim Bakker called Biltz’ work, “the most important book of the times.”

Biltz spent two-days recording interviews with Lori and Jim Bakker at their Christian retreat in Branson, Mo., with Bakker saying that these upcoming broadcasts will tell “the definitive story of the impending blood moons by the man who discovered the astronomical relationship behind the prophecy, heavenly signs and when they intersect.”

Bakker told Pastor Biltz that he read “Blood Moons” in exactly one setting, spending an entire night consuming every page and detail set forth in the book.

Joseph Farah, who wrote the foreword to “Blood Moons,” spoke with Pastor Biltz about the importance of being on God’s calendar, as outlined in Genesis 1:14.

Farah said: “You are the ‘blood moons’ guy, you are the discoverer of something that has become a phenomenon around the world. People recognizing God has given us heavenly signs for our times. And talking about time, the whole world is on a seven-day calendar and has been since God created the world. It’s in Genesis. What’s so significant about those seven days unless it came from the hand of God?”

Biltz said “mankind has been trying to change the seven day week forever, but it’s set in concrete, and this is what God created, despite man’s greatest endeavors.”

“This is God’s calendar,” he said.

Media wishing to interview Mark Biltz about “Blood Moons,” please contact us here.

Order your copy now!

See the trailer for the “Blood Moons” DVD:

And here’s a map of the regions of the U.S. that could have the best view:

Do the blood moons convey a message from God? No, they're just random, naturally occurring events

No, they're a message from the Big Bang

No, while I believe the Bible is true, there's really little significance in these events

No, the primitives thought lunar eclipses were omens, but we know better today

No

I just don't know if they're a divine message or the timing is coincidental

We'll just have to wait and see

I really don't know, but I'm fascinated by the topic

Yes, but I don't know precisely what the message is

Yes, falling on biblical feasts is a dead giveaway

Yes, the Bible says there will be signs involving the sun and moon

Yes, and they suggest the return of Jesus is imminent

Yes

Other View Results
====================
Officials decided to change the name of the traditional dish to "Spotted Richard" at the offices because the original name was "offensive".

Klaus Armstrong-Braun, a county councillor, said: "I couldn't believe it, it seemed ludicrous. Spotted Dick is part of our heritage. It just seemed political correctness gone mad.

"There was a sign in the dining room for things like rice pudding and then this Spotted Richard - I had to ask what it was."

Councillor Amstrong-Braun, a Green member on the coalition-run council, said: "Whoever has changed it needs to be told they are being silly."

A spokesman for Flintshire County Council confirmed that Spotted Dick had been taken off their menu at the offices in Mold, North Wales.

He said: "It is true that the correct title for this dish is Spotted Dick. However, because of several immature comments from a few customers, catering staff renamed the dish Spotted Richard - or sometimes even Sultana Sponge.

"This was not a policy decision, canteen staff simply acted as they thought best to put an end to unwelcome and childish comments, albeit from a very small number of customers."

Spotted Dick is made from suet, flour and dried fruit - and dates back to cookery books in 1850.

The spotted refers to the currants, but the rest of the name could be a corruption of "dough" or a contraction of pudding or puddink.
====================
By Walt Hunter



PHILADELPHIA (CBS) — Speaking exclusively to CBS 3, a 15-year-old high school student, whose identity we are concealing, described a terrifying attack by a gang of at least nine teenage boys as she was leaving an Interboro High School football game Monday night.

The teenage victim described first being taunted by the attackers, who followed her down a neighborhood street, cursing and spitting at her, before she was repeatedly kicked and punched, suffering at least one blow to her head.

“It was scary, just horrible, just the worst feeling in the world,” she said. “He punched me in my back and then kicked me in the back, and then punched me in the back of my head. I couldn’t breathe, I couldn’t move, I couldn’t talk. I was just straight crying.”

The victim says as at least two of the teenagers pummeled her, the others cheered them on shouting, “Come on, let’s get her!” At one point, the victim says, the gang tried to throw her under the wheels of a passing car, which swerved, narrowly missing her.

“They took me by my arm and just threw me out like I was a fishing rod. I was doubled over in pain,” she said. “Everything was just a big, giant blur.”

After being left injured in the roadway, she told CBS 3’s Walt Hunter that she staggered more than a mile to her home, worried she might not make it, before collapsing in the driveway.

Rushed by her parents to Taylor Hospital, she was medevaced to Children’s Hospital where, her parents say, she was treated for a partially collapsed lung and other injuries. After being released 48 hours after the attack, she is now recovering at home as police move forward with their investigation.

“What happened that night is beyond belief to me,” said Joe Parris, the victim’s father.

The victim and her family want to see the attackers brought to justice, and they say they are trying to comprehend what could possibly prompt a pack of strangers to viciously attack a young woman walking home from a football game.

If you have information, please call Glenolden Police at 610-583-1312.
====================
In the late 1960s, Yale Law School adopted a quota system for African-American applicants. Putting aside its normal criteria for admission, Yale decided that future law school classes would be 10% black, regardless of qualifications. Other law schools and academic institutions did the same thing at around the same time.

On June 9, 1969, California appellate judge Macklin Fleming, a Yale Law graduate, wrote a letter to Dean Louis Pollak questioning the wisdom of the new quota system. Reading the letter nearly 50 years later, one can only marvel at how prescient Judge Fleming was. I recommend the whole thing. Here are some excerpts:

From your remarks and those of Dean Poor, I understand that 43 black students have been admitted to next fall’s class, of whom 5 qualified under the regular standards and 38 did not. … You also said that the future policy of the Law School will be to admit 10 per cent of each entering class without regard to qualification under regular standards.

***

With the adoption of its new admission policy the Law School has taken a long step toward the practice of apartheid and the maintenance of two law schools under one roof. Already there has been established in the Law School building a Black Law Students Union lounge with furniture and law books provided by the school. And I learned from Dean Poor that the 12 black students in the present first year class who were admitted under relaxed standards have not done well academically. Dean Poor attributed this deficiency to the pre-occupation of these students with racial activities. I think it equally logical to attribute their preoccupation with racial activities to their lack of qualification to compete on even terms in the study of law.

***

The immediate damage to the standards of Yale Law School needs no elaboration. But beyond this, it seems to me the admission policy adopted by the Law School faculty will serve to perpetuate the very ideas and prejudices it is designed to combat. If in a given class the great majority of the black students are at the bottom of the class, this factor is bound to instill, unconsciously at least, some sense of intellectual superiority among the white students and some sense of intellectual inferiority among the black students.

Judge Fleming foresaw with remarkable clarity how affirmative action would give rise to the political activism we see today:

No one can be expected to accept an inferior status willingly. The black students, unable to compete on even terms in the study of law, inevitably will seek other means to achieve recognition and self-expression. This is likely to take two forms. First, agitation to change the environment from one in which they are unable to compete to one in which they can. Demands will be made for elimination of competition, reduction in standards of performance, adoption of courses of study which do not require intensive legal analysis, and recognition for academic credit of sociological activities which have only an indirect relationship to legal training. Second, it seems probable that this group will seek personal satisfaction and public recognition by aggressive conduct, which, although ostensibly directed at external injustices and problems, will in fact be primarily motivated by the psychological needs of the members of the group to overcome feelings of inferiority caused by lack of success in their studies. Since the common denominator of the group of students with lower qualifications is one of race this aggressive expression will undoubtedly take the form of racial demands–the employment of faculty on the basis of race, a marking system based on race, the establishment of a black curriculum and a black law journal, an increase in black financial aid, and a rule against expulsion of black students who fail to satisfy minimum academic standards.

Judge Fleming went on to articulate and rebut the various rationales for race discrimination in admissions. This paragraph is a relic of a better time:

The American creed, one that Yale has proudly espoused, holds that an American should be judged as an individual and not as a member of a group. To me it seems axiomatic that a system which ignores this creed and introduces the factor of race in the selection of students for a professional school is inherently malignant, no matter how high-minded the purpose nor how benign the motives of those making the selection.

Fleming also pointed out that discrimination in favor of one group necessarily means discrimination against others:

A quota policy particularly discriminates against minority groups which have achieved disproportionate representation in a particular field. Such a policy discriminated severely against Jewish applicants for admission to medical schools in the 1930’s. That policy was undoubtedly justified by its supporters as one designed to preserve a proportion of gentile students in medical schools equivalent to their proportion in the general population. Currently, the orientals in California, roughly 1 per cent of the population, comprise in some instances 30 per cent of the enrollment in certain engineering and technical schools. Were a quota system to be introduced in those schools in order to favor black and Mexican-American applicants, the first losers would be applicants from the presently disproportionately represented oriental group.

Which is, of course, a phenomenon that we see everywhere today.

Judge Fleming died in 2010, which means that he lived long enough to see his predictions vindicated. But to be right is not necessarily to be heeded. Just ask Cassandra.

Dean Pollak replied cordially to Judge Fleming’s letter. You can read his response, which defends race discrimination in law school admissions, at the link. Pollak’s letter strikes me as less than candid. I was struck by this passage:

[T]he considerations which have led the faculty to enlarge its readiness to accept academically under-prepared applicants of high promise are not confined to blacks or other disadvantaged racial minorities; these same considerations, the committee has observed, argue for greater solicitude with respect to, e.g., white applicants from Appalachia or the rural south. The point is one which will, I am confident, not be lost sight of….

This prediction, unlike Judge Fleming’s, did not prove to be prescient.

Via John Derbyshire.
====================
"For the first time, digital art becomes collectable and tradable without printing or materializing it." - Stephan Vogler

With the help of Bitcoin, a new kind of license transforms the usage rights to copyright-protected digital artworks into limited and tradable virtual properties. Cointelegraph spoke with entrepreneur and artist Stephan Vogler, who publishes his artwork under this new license that provides more usage rights and easily-proven ownership.

Vogler and the art law experts of dtb rechtsanwälte in Berlin teamed up to create a license based on Bitcoin technology to transform digital artworks into technically and legally limited and tradable virtual properties.

“These licenses can be securely transferred worldwide with minimal transaction costs and — if paid with bitcoins — securely sold without the need for an escrow service,” explains Vogler. All usage rights owners are recorded in the Bitcoin blockchain.

-- Faces Series by Stephan Vogler

Cointelegraph: First, could you tell us a little bit about yourself and how you got into Bitcoin?

Stephen Vogler: I’m co-founder and managing director of an online games company in Germany. We're developing and running some very successful MMORPGs (massively multiplayer online role-playing games) for more than 10 years. So I've got a thorough understanding of virtual items and their market value. I also have a long-standing interest in information technology, modern art and law. Discovering that digital art hasn't touched some very interesting conceptual topics, I started to create digital artworks myself.

“[T]he blockchain is the first decentralized trustable database […]. You can use it to transform any kind of legal claim into an independent virtual property.”

I learned about Bitcoin in 2013 and soon realized that the blockchain is the first decentralized trustable database, which can track the ownership of virtual properties in a reliable way. You can use it to transform any kind of legal claim into an independent virtual property.

CT: You are one of the first people in the world to apply a license for every published work, using the Bitcoin blockchain to transform its usage rights “into an immaterial good.” How is this license created and how does it work?

SV: Think of the license as a piece of paper that says: "Whoever owns this piece of paper is the only person allowed to use the work." Just like Bitcoin can replace banknotes, Bitcoin can replace this piece of paper.

This is how it works: The author publishes the license text file together with his digital signature file. The license text includes a Bitcoin address, which belongs to the author. The author is now able to put a file (e.g., a digital artwork) under the license by creating a transaction from this address with a hash value of the file in one of the transaction's outputs (using OP_RETURN). The recipient of this transaction is the licensee who owns the usage rights. The license is exclusive and is granted only to this recipient. A new transaction can then transfer the usage rights to a new owner.

CT: Are you using any third-party services to do this (Factom, Counterparty, etc.)? Do you think these types of solutions would improve upon your method?

SV: No, I'm not using any third-party services. To put new files under my license, I'm using a simple script, and to transfer the immaterial goods, you can use the standard Bitcoin client. There are a couple of projects out there that try to implement similar concepts or parts of it as a service. They are in a very early stage of realization and differ in various aspects. In the future, they will certainly help to bring the concept to a larger audience.

For me, it's important that my digital artworks don't depend on a single service. They will exist and are transferable as long as the blockchain exists.

CT: How can artists showcase their work to potential buyers without it being copied?

SV: The concept does not prevent anyone from copying the work itself. However, the license enables the owner of the exclusive usage rights to prove his ownership. An example: A digital photo is put under the license and sold as an immaterial good to an art collector. If someone else sells prints of the photo, the art collector is able to prove his exclusive ownership of the usage rights and sue this person.

“[T]he blockchain can unlock the true potential of digital art.”

CT: How beneficial could the blockchain be in the art world? What specific problems can it solve?

SV: Until now, in the art world everything is built on trust. There is no way to prove the authenticity or scarcity of material art. Art collectors need to trust auction houses, art dealers, authentication boards and of course the artists themselves. Unfortunately there is a long, sad history of abuses of this trust in the art world. The blockchain and its scripting mechanisms can help to reduce the necessary amount of trust to a minimum. In this way the blockchain can unlock the true potential of digital art.

This includes the following advantages:

The authenticity of the signature and the signature date of the work can be proven beyond a reasonable doubt;

The entitlement to the connected usage rights can be proven beyond a reasonable doubt;

The good can be securely and instantaneously sold or transferred worldwide with minimal transaction costs;

If the good is paid with bitcoins it can be securely sold worldwide without the need for an escrow service.

CT: The granting of the right to transfer the “immaterial good” is exclusive and legally limited to only one licensee. What happens after the piece of digital art is sold and the rights are transferred? Can the buyer make multiple copies of this work after buying it?

SV: The buyer will be the only person who is allowed to distribute digital or physical copies of the work. He is also the only person who can transfer the usage rights to a new owner. However, if he does, he will lose the usage rights.

CT: You mention that if the good is paid for with bitcoins, no escrow service is needed. However, what guarantee does the buyer have that they will receive the artwork and the exclusive license?

SV: Thanks to the way Bitcoin transactions work, it is possible to transfer the usage rights and pay for this transfer in a single transaction. Either both things will happen — the transfer AND the payment — or both will fail. It's not possible that only one part of the transaction fails.

“[P]eople will try to use the blockchain to turn almost every legal claim into an immaterial good (e.g., copyrights, patents, stocks, trademarks).”

CT: To what other “immaterial goods” can Bitcoin’s technology be applied, in your opinion? Do these good have to be immaterial? For example, can the blockchain be used to determine the ownership, authenticity or provenance of physical goods, as well?

SV: I think people will try to use the blockchain to turn almost every legal claim into an immaterial good (e.g., copyrights, patents, stocks, trademarks). If this really works out or not depends on the laws in the various countries. Of course, legal claims can also refer to physical objects (e.g., the right to use a car or the right to live in an apartment). However, the blockchain will only keep track of the ownership of these rights. I don't see any way to prove the authenticity of physical goods with the help of the blockchain.

CT: Loopholes in the patent system have led to the emergence of a burgeoning patent troll industry that comprises over $29 billion dollars annually. Do you think the protected digital property could undercut this practice (by eliminating the need for litigation since the blockchain can be easily used to prove ownership)?

SV: Probably not. Even though the blockchain can help to easily prove ownership, it will not prevent anyone from violating the rights connected to the ownership. The process of enforcement of the rights will stay the same.
====================
More than 700 doctors in California sanctioned for wrongdoing by hospitals and other health care organizations haven’t faced any disciplinary action from the California medical board. And according to consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, which compiled the numbers, the medical board’s inaction puts public safety on the line.

The group sent a letter this week to California Gov. Jerry Brown, urging him to take action to protect patients. Most of the physicians had been identified by other health organizations as “unable to practice safely,” having “substandard or inadequate skill level,” or giving “substandard or inadequate care.” More than 100 were identified by peer reviewers as posing an “immediate threat to health or safety” of patients.

California’s medical board isn’t the first of the state’s regulators to be flagged for giving dangerous caregivers a pass.

Following a series of ProPublica reports in 2009 about the failure of the state nursing board to discipline nurses convicted of serious misconduct, then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger replaced most of the members on the California Board of Registered Nursing and began issuing sanctions against some of the nurses we identified.

What’s unclear is whether the stepped-up enforcement by the nursing board has continued in light of the state’s budget problems. Records from a Board of Registered Nursing meeting in May showed members discussing the need for more enforcement staff—a challenge, given the state’s hiring freeze: “We lack the ability to fill the necessary, approved positions, or to backfill our existing vacancies,” the meeting minutes noted.

Vacancies are also a factor for the Medical Board of California, which is responsible for licensing doctors and suspending or revoking licenses for serious violations. A Medical Board spokeswoman told the Los Angeles Times, “We have a 20 percent vacancy rate and we’re trying to focus on our core functions.”

Meantime, the board is taking an average of more than 400 days to complete an investigation into a doctor, even though state law sets a deadline of 180 days, reported the Times.

California isn’t the only state with a troubled record of disciplining doctors. An earlier report by Public Citizen found that, across the country, more than half of the doctors listed in the National Practitioner Data Bank as having had their clinical privileges either restricted or revoked by their health care organizations did not face any state licensing action. That percentage was as high as 70 percent to 77 percent in eight states—Delaware, Hawaii, Indiana, New Mexico, Nevada, Pennsylvania, South Dakota and Tennessee.

To see how your state compares, you can check the full report [PDF] or take a look at Public Citizen’s ranking of disciplinary rates [PDF] for doctors.
====================
"It's too bad the Post Office isn't as efficient as the Weather Service," Doc Brown says in the 1989 movie Back to the Future: Part II, referring to the fact that the weather could be manipulated by the government. But was that vision of the future really that futuristic?

Controlling the weather sounds like it should be the exclusive domain of science fiction. But manipulation of the clouds has a somewhat surprising history in the real world. In fact, the U.S. military ran a secret, little-remembered weather control program during the Vietnam War.

Advertisement

You can listen to me discuss the history of weather control over at Marketplace Tech.

From March 1967 until July 1972 the U.S. military spent over $3 million per year conducting a top secret operation in Southeast Asia. The goal was to extend the monsoon season and flood the Ho Chi Minh Trail, the system of supply routes used by enemy fighters in Vietnam. The Americans hoped to cause landslides, wash out river crossings, and just generally disrupt the movement of North Vietnamese troops. It was the first large scale effort to manipulate the weather for military purposes. And it's still unclear how well it actually worked.

The program went by many names. It was called at various times Operation Popeye, Operation Motorpool, and Operation Intermediary-Compatriot. Reportedly the name had to be changed so many times on account of people without the proper security clearances learning the name.

Advertisement

Whatever you want to call it, the goals were ambitious. A power once thought to be only in the hands of your deity of choice was now a weapon to be wielded by Man. And in a strange way, some American forces saw it as more palatable way to fight by disrupting movement rather than bombing. "Make mud, not war," was the unofficial moniker of the Air Force pilots who carried out the missions.

The project worked by seeding clouds over countries like Laos and Vietnam with silver iodide. Roughly 2,000 runs were conducted over the five years of the program.

Cloud seeding was far from new in the late 1960s. There were extensive experiments by GE and the U.S. military after World War II. And ARPA was working with advanced computers in the early 60s to see how weather might be used in battle. But Operation Popeye was the first known successful use of weather control technology in combat.

Advertisement

Cloud seeding unit mounted to the side of a WC-130A Hercules via Historic Wings

James Rodger Fleming, author of the book Fixing the Sky: The Checkered History of Weather and Climate Control explains that it's unclear just how "successful" the program was, from a tactical perspective. Fleming comes down on the side of "very little" compared with less conservative historians. But if there's anything that everybody can agree upon, it's that the program made it difficult for the military to experiment with such tactics in the future:

Although some claimed that [Operation Popeye] induced from 1 to 7 inches of additional rainfall annually along the Ho Chi Minh Trail, no scientific data were collected to verify the claim. General Westmoreland thought there was "no appreciable increase" in rain from the project. Even if the cloud seeding had produced a tactical victory or two in Vietnam (it did not), the extreme secrecy surrounding the operation and the subsequent denials and stonewalling of Congress by the military resulted in a major strategic defeat for military weather modification.

Advertisement

The entire operation was naturally met with concern by the public once word of Operation Popeye started to leak out. Some people now go so far as to call the operation the "Watergate of weather warfare." Nixon administration officials initially denied the existence of the program when it first leaked in 1971. Columnist Jack Anderson at the Washington Post had broke the story in March of 1971.

Denials from the Nixon administration were adamant and unequivocal. Nixon's secretary of Defense, Melvin Laird testified at a Senate hearing on April 18, 1972 that, "we have never engaged in that type of activity over Northern Vietnam." That was a baldfaced lie.

By July of 1972 the New York Times had published their own story about the program with new details that freaked out the public. Operation Popeye even had a brief cameo appearance in the Pentagon Papers. News organizations were starting to paint a better picture of what the U.S. military was up to. Just a few days after the New York Times story broke, Operation Popeye was shut down.

Advertisement

Under public pressure from people nervous about the U.S. military playing God, both houses of Congress rushed to pass legislation in 1974 to ban weather control for combat purposes. By 1974 a UN Treaty was in the works, but once it was signed in 1978 it was pretty much useless. It forbade countries from using environmental modification in war, but had so many loopholes that they may as well have not tried.

The world may have agreed that control of the weather and climate was a dangerous weapon of war. But weather manipulation is still very much on the minds of U.S. intelligence agencies. Just last month a climate researcher reported that the CIA gave him a call to see about how technology might be used by a foreign power to disrupt our weather. It's probably safe to say that humanity hasn't seen the last of weather modification in war.

Advertisement

Top photo taken during an Operation Popeye mission on July 31, 1968 via the Air Weather Reconnaissance Association

Contact the author at novak@gizmodo.com.
====================
The Western alliance marks 100 days of bombing Libya on Sunday with political leaders adamant that the regime, which violently crushed a popular uprising in February, is isolated and collapsing from within.

However defence analysts said it has still not identified a clear line of attack that would break the veteran leader's grip on power.

"This campaign is about inflicting pain on the regime but there is no precedent where air power alone has taken a government down without encircling the city," said Shashank Joshi, of the Royal United Services Institute.

The Gaddafi regime has shown an ability to overcome setbacks and take advantage of gaps in the coalition air strikes. Re-engineered Grad missiles with a longer range have struck central Misurata – killing two women and a boy – more than a month after the siege of the port was broken.

Residents thought that the weeks of sustained bombardment they endured was over when rebels drove regime troops at least 20 miles beyond the city outskirts, where the front lines have since remained.

Shelling of the city began again this week, with salvos of rockets falling daily and hitting at least four residential neighbourhoods.

The Grad rockets have been adapted to have a longer range so that they may once again hit the city centre said rebel military commanders. "Gaddafi men are using long range, very accurate rockets, possibly from China or Iran. The head is modified with explosive ball bearings," said Salah Badi, commander for the Misurata military forces.

"Families in Misurata are once again living in fear of being killed as rockets rain down on their homes and it's impossible for the terrified residents to find safe shelter," said Donatella Rovera, an Amnesty International researcher. "They must realise that their actions may result in their being made to answer one day to the most serious of charges, of having perpetrated war crimes and crimes against humanity."

The shelling has triggered sharp criticism of Nato. "Every day they target a different area of the city. Now we are all wondering; the mission of Nato is to protect civilians. But every day they bomb, everyday there is at least one victim," said Abdulla Jawid at Misurata's main medical centre. "We are not protected. I haven't left the hospital since Feb. 19 as there are just too many casualties."

However, a senior Foreign office diplomat yesterday insisted the demise of the dictatorship was inevitable. "The momentum has shifted irrevocably against Gaddafi and those around him," he said. "The anger against him is simmering. The question is not if he will go, but when."

But a Nato defence official admitted that Nato planners could not bring overwhelming force against the regime. "Libya is a big country and there will naturally be a limit to what Nato does," the defence official conceded.

Nato has flown 12,000 sorties, including 5,000 attack missions, and hit more than 2,400 targets since launching strikes against Libya 100 days ago on Sunday under a United Nations mandate to protect civilians. However the attacks are paltry compared to the number of strikes in 78-day Kosovo campaign which defeated Serbian aggression in 1999. Then the total number of Nato sorties flown was 38,000.

"Nato has not yet achieved the result it did in the 78 day Kosovo campaign. But it is using only one third of the number of aircraft. Deploying small teams of air controllers or special forces onto the ground could allow air attacks to better coordinated with the rebel forces and thus more effective." said Ben Barry, land warfare fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies.

The MoD has estimated that the Libya mission costs Britain £43 million a month. Mr Joshi said a successful campaign is likely to end up costing £900 million.

As Col Gaddafi has defied attacks on his Tripoli bunker and survived defections from his ranks, the Libyan opposition has begun to concede that it may have to water down its demand that he leave the country and face international justice. Mohmoud Shammam, a member of the Transitional National Council said: "We consider that he has to resign himself to leaving or accept retirement in a remote part of Libya. We have no objection to him retreating to a Libyan oasis under international control."
====================
For the box office of "Fantastic Four," it was less "flame on" and more like flame out.

The Marvel superhero film opened this weekend to an estimated $26.2 million at the U.S. box office -- way under the $40 million experts had predicted.

The 20th Century Fox reboot of the beloved comic book franchise also represents one of the worst openings for the Marvel brand. It made a little bit more than 2012's "Ghost Rider: Spirit Of Vengeance," which opened with $22.1 million.

While Fox owns "Fantastic Four," other big Marvel brands -- Iron Man, Captain America and the rest of the Avengers -- are owned by Disney (DIS).

"Fantastic Four" was widely panned by critics and received a paltry 9% score on review site Rotten Tomatoes. Audiences were also not pleased and gave the movie a CinemaScore of C-.

Related: 'Fantastic Four' reviews are anything but

The film that took the weekend's top spot at the box office was Paramount's "Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation." The action spy thriller pulled in an estimated $29.4 million.

The film, starring Tom Cruise, has made $108.6 million domestically since being released 10 days ago.

Overall, the U.S. box office was down roughly 30% compared to the same weekend a year ago, according to Rentrak (RENT).

While the summer movie season doesn't officially end until Labor Day, the slate of big summer films will slow in coming weeks.

However, there still could be some surprises. Universal's NWA biopic "Straight Outta Compton" and Warner Bros.' old school spy film "The Man From U.N.C.L.E." hit theaters next weekend.
====================
A digital reconstruction of part of a rat brain has been achieved by scientists, marking the first major result of a neuroscience project aiming to eventually simulate the human brain using a supercomputer. The international team led by researchers at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne succeeded in digitally reconstructing the neocortical microcircuitry of a fragment of brain roughly the size of a grain of sand.

The research, published in the journal Cell, comes out of the Blue Brain Project and links with the €1 billion (£740 million) Human Brain Project. Henry Makram, one of the founders of the initiative, described the reconstruction as a "first draft" and said that work on reconstructing and simulating the brain had only just begun.

Lead author of the study Michael Reimann revealed that the researchers carried out tens of thousands of experiments on neurons and synapses in the neocortex of young rats, cataloguing each type of neuron and synapse that they found. Software was then used to mine data from laboratories around the world in order to reconstruct a map of nearly 40 million synapses in the microcircuitry.

"The algorithm begins by positioning realistic 3D models of neurons in a virtual volume, respecting the measured distribution of different neuron types at different depths," Reimann said. "It then detects all locations where the branches of the neurons touch each other – more than 600 million.

"It then systematically prunes all the touches that do not fit with five biological rules of connectivity. That leaves 37 million touches. These are the locations where we constructed our model synapses."

The project is one of several around the world that are currently working towards mapping the human brain. Each builds on the pioneering work of the Spanish anatomist Santiago Ramon y Cajal, who made attempts to better understand the human brain more than a century ago.

Idan Segev, a senior author of the Blue Brain Project paper, said: "Ramon y Cajal began drawing every type of neuron in the brain by hand. He even drew in arrows to describe how he thought the information was flowing from one neuron to the next.

"Today, we are doing what Cajal would be doing with the tools of the day – building a digital representation of the neurons and synapses and simulating the flow of information between neurons on supercomputers. Furthermore, the digitisation of the tissue allows the data to be preserved for future generations."
====================
Gregg Borschmann: If there's a war against cats, feral cats, in Australia, then French Island in Victoria's Western Port Bay has been on the front line for more than five years.

I'm just arriving at the island's Tankerton Jetty, after the short ferry trip from Stony Point on the Mornington Peninsula. The talk on board has been all about feral cats. And, like the tribal passions of football, opinions are still divided.

Ferry passenger 1: But it's true, some people love 'em and some people don't, there are real animal lovers…

Ferry passenger 2: People hate cats, I like cats, you know, that's the problem.

Ferry passenger 1: I don't mind cats either as a pet…

Ferry passenger 2: But we hate Geelong! [laughs]

Gregg Borschmann: Hello, I'm Gregg Borschmann and this is Background Briefing on RN. I'm on a journey to the 'killing fields' of French Island to meet wildlife ranger David Stephenson, and contract shooter and trapper, Vaughn Thompson.

One of Victoria's prized parks, more than 850 feral cats have been trapped and shot dead on the island since 2009. After more than two centuries of being 'off the biological radar', scientists have now confirmed that the feral cat is the biggest single threat driving the second great extinction wave that's sweeping across Australia. Rolling across northern tropical Australia over the past two decades, it's now reached the Kimberley, Australia's last great ark of pre-European biodiversity.

Adding to the losses, the feral cat is now also heavily implicated in the first extinction wave that started with white settlement. On the mainland and offshore islands, across every single ecological niche from the arid lands to our World Heritage rainforests, it's mopping up the remnants of Australia's rich and unique biodiversity.

Leaving Tankerton Jetty on French Island, we head across grazing country on bumpy bush tracks for ranger David Stephenson's office.

David Stephenson: I've always loved cats, I grew up with cats. I've probably in the last five years shot about 800 of them, and I do it because I'm trying to protect the wildlife. I don't enjoy doing it, and I try and do it as efficiently as I possibly can, with a single shot with a .22.

Gregg Borschmann: Apart from the cats, David Stephenson has got other problems as well. He's lucky there's no foxes on the island, and over the past eight years he's eliminated the feral pigs.

But there's a long list of other pests he's flat out trying to control; wild populations of goats, feral peacocks, rabbits, and the massive samba deer. Despite this, on French Island the feral cat is king. David Stephenson knows that it's the most threatening predator.

David Stephenson: If you go around the island today and you'll see there's Cape Barren geese everywhere, there's young everywhere, we've seen cats work as like a pride of lions on Cape Barren geese, they'll work as a pack. They're really little lions, they behave like a pride of lions. They do very similar things that lions do. You know, when a male takes over a territory it will kill the cubs. When you skin a cat you'll see you've got all these scent glands under their lip, and under their paws, just like lions, just like tigers, just like all the rest of the big cats.

Gregg Borschmann: Just over 100 people live on French Island, and most of them own cats. David Stephenson reckons he's only just 'keeping the lid' on a wild population of more than 500, so that's more cats than people.

Across every state and territory, it's a similar story. An estimated 15- to 23 million feral cats call Australia home. Scientifically, they're the same species as the domestic cat, Felis catus. But ultimately they're all descendants of the wild cats of Africa and Asia. And unlike domestic cat, which is a fussy eater, these cats will eat almost anything.

Ecologist Dr John Read has dissected the gut of almost a thousand feral cats that he's caught over the past 25 years in the South Australian arid lands.

John Read: Each one is a bit of a surprise, you never really know what you're going to get. We actually find that they're quite a useful technique for finding out what's living in the area, a very good supplement to standard observations and trapping and things like that. You feel a little bit like opening your Christmas presents, except there's more surprise in this than some of the Christmas presents we get.

Just earlier this year I was cutting open some cats. Some of them had large snakes, King Brown snakes probably about four-foot long, juvenile perenties which are the largest lizard in Australia, the big goannas. They eat falcons and cockatoos, bats, centipedes, scorpions. I imagine that they would have a hard time pulling down a saltwater crocodile, I imagine cassowaries are probably pretty safe. But virtually every lizard, every snake, every frog, every bat, just about every bird in Australia and any mammal smaller than a large kangaroo, at least when they are joeys, are all susceptible to cat predation.

Gregg Borschmann: Few know Australian mammals better than conservation biologist Dr John Woinarksi. He's just co-written an important State of the Nation report for the mammals.

It's well known that Australia has the world's worst record for extinctions. Since European settlement, at least 29, possibly 30 mammal species have been pushed off the evolutionary gangplank.

John Woinarksi: Australian mammals have suffered a terrible crisis over the last 200 years, probably a greater rate of extinction than any other group of animals in the world over that time period. Many of these mammal species have been wiped out or declined for a range of reasons, but our assessment was clearly that the major cause of decline and extinction has been predation and particularly predation by feral cats.

Gregg Borschmann: Scientists thought for many years that the extinction wave caused by white settlement had petered out some time in the 1960s, more or less stopping at Australia's tropical margins. But recently, that belief has been shattered.

John Woinarksi: Australian mammals did suffer a wave of extinctions initially in semi-arid then arid Australia leading up to about the 1960s, and we thought that might be the end of the problem but in fact over the last two to three decades in northern Australia, the same sorts of species that went extinct elsewhere in Australia seem to be disappearing rapidly from that northern Australian landscape as well.

Gregg Borschmann: Almost 30 years ago and not long out of university, John Woinarski went to work in what was then a living biological ark, the top end of the Northern Territory, places like Kakadu and Arnhem Land. It was a wonderland.

John Woinarksi: Northern Australia for ecologists offered a sort of time travel experience, we could see Australia as it must have been 200 years ago. So when I went there in the late 1980s we did lots of wildlife survey, and we'd go out, put a lot of traps for mammals and in the morning go and clear those traps, and it was really laborious because we were catching so many animals, so many different species of animals and so many numbers of each of those animals that it was…you know, it was effectively a paradise for a zoologist.

And then over the course of a decade we were getting less and less in our traps. until I guess by about 2000, 2010, that sort of era, we were coming back with almost nothing. This was in areas that were remote from any obvious threats, in Kakadu, in Arnhem Land and places like that. And it was demoralising, right on the cusp of a sort of major almost extinction event I guess, a decline of really severe and really rapid rate.

Gregg Borschmann: So why the sudden and recent collapse? It's long been thought that cats have been in Australia for more than 400 years, cast-offs from Dutch and Portuguese shipwrecks along the West Australian coast.

But Chris Johnson, Professor of Zoology at the University of Tasmania, says we now know that's not true.

Chris Johnson: It's now quite clear the cats are a recent arrival, they came in with the British from about 1820 onwards, but established very quickly over all of the continent. And there is some evidence, and again we are only just coming to grips with this, that lots of species disappeared very, very early in the history of the colonisation of Australia by the British. There are mammal species that have only just been described and we realise that they must have been abundant 200 years ago, but then vanished. So what caused them to vanish? And the leading candidate for that cause I think is the feral cat.

Gregg Borschmann: So it's only in past decade or two that researchers have come to a radical re-writing of the ecological story

Scientists like John Woinarksi say we overlooked the feral cat because we're still struggling to understand the Australian landscape, especially in the tropical north.

John Woinarksi: It seemed as if these landscapes were intact, so there were no obvious threats. We knew that feral cats had been in those environments for maybe 100 years or so, so it didn't seem they were an obvious culprit to cause such rapid and severe declines, you know, just in the last decade or two. So it wasn't until we started modelling the rates of mortality, trying to tease apart the impacts of all the other potential causes—including fire, including weeds, including feral buffalo and things like that—that we were left really with one major culprit, and that turns out to be the cat.

Gregg Borschmann: But the problem is not just the feral cat. We've also discovered only recently that the cat lives in an uneasy alliance, or contest, with the European red fox. Dr Chris Johnson again:

Chris Johnson: As we've got better at controlling the impact of foxes, in a sense that has unmasked the feral cat as a threat, and part of the reason there is that foxes are actually really good at controlling cats, you know, they're aggressive to them and they control their numbers, and cats avoid foxes. So where you have got a lot of foxes you tend not to have that many cats, and it looks like foxes are a big problem, and of course they are, but if we managed to knock the foxes down, the cats can come up, so in a sense we solve one problem and buy another problem.

Gregg Borschmann: That ecological lesson, a sobering real-life cat and fox story, played out recently in Western Australia. From the mid-1990s, as part of a biodiversity project called Western Shield, almost a million fox baits were dropped by plane every year across public lands in the south-west of the state. There was a big knock-down of foxes and an immediate resurgence of native birds and mammals like the tammar wallaby, the critically endangered brush tailed bettong, or woylie, and the western ground parrot. The woylie was removed from state, national and international threatened species lists.

Then, inexplicably, things went wrong. From the early 2000s, spectacular population crashes—in some cases over 90%—were recorded.

Dave Algar is the senior research scientist developing cat control strategies for the WA Department of Parks and Wildlife.

Dave Algar: The school is still out on how it happened. I mean, one school of thought is that implementing fox control, broad-scale fox control allowed these native species to build up in numbers, which then allowed better survival of the cat population and then they became a threat.

Gregg Borschmann: As hunters, cats prefer live prey, so it's been the holy grail of feral cat management to develop a bait that's enticing, humane and lethal. So far, a cat bait called Eradicat is the best shot in the locker.

Dave Algar again:

Dave Algar: Eradicat is the feral cat bait we use in Western Australia. It's essentially a chipolata sausage comprised of kangaroo meat and it's got lots of flavour enhancers that make it particularly attractive to cats. It contains 4.5 mgs of sodium monofluoroacetate, which is a toxicant, and we're finding it very beneficial for the control of feral cats in this state.

Gregg Borschmann: The catch is, Eradicat can only be used in WA.

Most native animals in other parts of Australia will die from the 1080 poison it uses. In the west, animals there have adapted to it, as it's found naturally in pea plants in the Gastrolobium genus, which is why, back on French Island, ranger David Stephenson and contractor Vaughn Thomson are still shooting and trapping.

As we poured over maps and reports in his office, David Stephenson explained the secret ingredient in the live traps that he uses; KFC chicken. It even proved irresistible to the native rats and mice of French Island when their numbers boomed after the breaking of the last drought.

David Stephenson: You've basically got a live bait, because the mice were hanging off the bait, so they've got a big piece of chicken, we use KFC for bait. We've trialled everything from pilchard to rabbit to all sorts of fish, actual cat food, you name it, we've tried it, and we stick with KFC because it lasts so long in the field, and it smells so much too, so it puts an aroma out there. Even the motto for KFC now is 'smell the chicken'.

Gregg Borschmann: And it's got to be fresh?

David Stephenson: It's got to be fresh, yeah. I've trialled using frozen chicken before, KFC. Not as successful. So it needs to be fresh, and even sometimes you can heat it on the bonnet of the car, like on the manifold. You just pull up, put it in some alfoil and put it on the manifold, just to get it, yeah, warm and create a bit of scent.

Gregg Borschmann: In the late afternoon of my first day on the island, I joined David Stephenson and Vaughn Thompson on the trap run. There's around 100 cat traps, and they're easy to spot as we move along fence lines and tracks. Vaughn had 20 buckets of KFC to freshen up the bait in each trap.

Vaughn Thompson: We're just on the west coast of French Island, just on a walking track, because cats like using tracks, open roads, that's why people do see 'em. So we're just going to change the bait here because the rain affected it, when we had a little bit of rain last night so…

Gregg Borschmann: So you've got a nice fresh piece of chicken?

Vaughn Thompson: A nice fresh bit of chicken. As you can see on my gloves, it's very oily. I can't really eat this anymore after doing this for the last few years, it doesn't really go down too well.

Gregg Borschmann: And you've just got that hanging there?

Vaughn Thompson: Yes, swinging in front of it, so it's like a visual, so yeah.

Gregg Borschmann: So the windier the better?

Vaughn Thompson: Well, you could that way, yes, that's right, if it didn't have the rain with it.

Gregg Borschmann: So what are you now, you're setting it?

Vaughn Thompson: Yes, just hanging the bait, hopefully present it good enough for the cat to come along, if there is any around.

Gregg Borschmann: Well, that's the first trap and it's empty, so zero out of one so far, Vaughn.

Vaughn Thompson: That's right, I've even checked a few this morning and I've had no luck, so hopefully this last run we do, hopefully we can get one little feline anyway.

Gregg Borschmann: While French Island is still pretty much ecologically intact and the cats are controlled, in the Channel Country of western Queensland, it's a different story. Feral cats have all but wiped out the last remaining Queensland stronghold in the wild of the endangered greater bilby. It's now famous as Australia's Easter Bunny.

Frank Manthey is the co-founder of the Save the Bilby Fund. He witnessed a feral cat plague on the Diamantina floodplain there in the early 1990s.

Frank Manthey: There's a guy that did some research on the letter-winged kite who went out to exactly where the bilbies are. And he described the tree with the spotlight as a Xmas tree, there was that many eyes shining the lights from the cats in that tree. And when I actually got out there to that area, I actually took the army out there and when we'd go down these drainage lines, every letter-winged kite nest had at least four or five feral cats asleep in the nest and of course the birds and eggs and things had long gone and I thought to myself 'What a disgusting way that we are treating this country'.

Gregg Borschmann: That's unbelievable, because presumably the young of those hawks, those kites would have been predated by those cats. So first they ate them, then they stole their nests.

Frank Manthey: Exactly, and they would sleep there all day and of course then come down onto the plains to destroy our native wildlife.

Gregg Borschmann: The Queensland government has declared what it calls a 'war' on the feral cat in the area. Frank Manthey says it's partly because he's been able to infect the Premier Campbell Newman with 'bilby fever'.

But despite an expensive shooting program over the past two years at the Astrebla Downs National Park, the wild bilby population is still being decimated. By March this year, the stomachs of more than 3,000 shot cats had been dissected to reveal at least 120 bilbies, and countless other native species. It's speculated that there may now be as few as 200 bilbies surviving in the wild.

So I asked the Queensland Minister for Environment and Heritage Protection Andrew Powell, do we know precisely how many bilbies are left?

Andrew Powell: Look we don't Gregg, but the estimates of several hundred is probably pretty close to the money. What we have seen out at Astrebla Downs is what could only be called a feral cat plague. We have done a fair bit of work over the last two years as a government to try and drive that down. In two years our Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service rangers have removed around 3,000 feral cats in that part of the world alone.

Gregg Borschmann: This has cost you $350,000 over those two years. The bilby is listed nationally as threatened, yet the federal government contributed nothing. Has Queensland and the bilby been let down or short-changed by the Commonwealth?

Andrew Powell: I think as a state we will always continue to do what we need to do to ensure our threatened species like the bilby are protected and conserved as best we can. And obviously any additional funds that can come from the federal government would be welcomed.

Gregg Borschmann: But spending $350,000 every couple of years is not financial sustainable is it…

Andrew Powell: No, it's not…

Gregg Borschmann: …even with the support of Cabinet and Premier Newman. What we have seen is basically a one­-off, isn't it?

Andrew Powell: We've seen a persistent campaign by this government to tackle feral cats. But you're right, prevention is always better than a cure.

Gregg Borschmann: The problem is, there is no cure. One issue is the confused regulatory status of the feral cat. It is, if you'll excuse the pun, a dog's breakfast.

Frank Manthey from the Save the Bilby Fund wants it on the agenda at a national summit.

The feral cat is listed as a key threatening process under the Federal Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act. But it's still not declared a pest species in Victoria, South Australia, West Australia or Tasmania. Simply, the cat is an environmental threat, but it's not an agricultural pest, and that means it gets less money for research.

Frank Manthey again:

Frank Manthey: It's because it doesn't affect humans, number one. Look, when the Hendra virus started, we lost some humans because of that bat and the Hendra virus, they threw everything in the book to fix that and get an antidote and whatever. And rightly so, I'm not saying that that's wrong. But what I'm saying is we've got a whole heap of species about to go down the gurgler because of a cat and we throw nothing at it, you know, we're not even throwing stones at it. Everybody is happy to sit back and let it happen.

Gregg Borschmann: Since the election of the Abbott government, Federal Environment Minister Greg Hunt has elevated feral cats and threatened species recovery to what he calls a 'front and centre priority'. And he now has a plan for a 10-year plan to eradicate feral cats.

Greg Hunt: Well, I would like to see that within a decade we have effectively eradicated all of the significant populations of feral cats around Australia. I wouldn't promise that there are no feral cats. I think that would be not credible. But I think we can effectively remove the threat to our native population if we have a decade-long plan.

Gregg Borschmann: The Minister says he'll host a national threatened species and feral animals summit before July next year. And it's there that he wants everyone to sign onto his 10-year national plan. So how does he imagine it may work?

Greg Hunt: The cat bait is something which within a very short period of time we can deploy on a very major basis. It's about the first big hit to that feral cat population. The second wave is about the trapping and hunting on a massive scale. At the moment we can do that in small areas. And then the third wave is if it were 100% safe, and in my view not until it is absolutely guaranteed with external assessment, then you could have a biological control. The research is already underway. But we just have to sure that we don't let loose in our natural environment something with unintended consequences.

Gregg Borschmann: The Environment Minister has made three very big and potentially expensive promises here, and the problem is, as usual, money, or lack of. First up, the cat bait Curiosity. Since 2008, $2.2 million has been spent by the federal government on feral cat research and control. Nearly 80% of that went on developing Curiosity. It's the one the government's pinning its hopes on.

Greg Hunt again:

Greg Hunt: This is a bait which is designed to exclude almost every other possible predator of the bait. It's a very, very carefully constructed bait. It has a toxin which simply works by putting the animal to sleep, and the way it operates if it is seeded and placed on a very large scale in those areas where the cats congregate, then we will be able to begin a pathway to eradicating feral cats in significant areas and then to thinning them out in other areas. The Curiosity cat bait is something which I have made a national environmental cause and research priority.

Gregg Borschmann: Despite the Minister's enthusiasm, we still don't know if it works.

Andrew Cox is CEO of the Invasive Species Council.

Andrew Cox: Certainly Curiosity bait has got a long way to go to be confident that it is going to work, and that's part of the danger in relying so heavily on it. So the research is already showing some impacts on non-target species like goannas, so that effectively rules it out in northern Australia but in southern Australia where they hibernate in winter then we might be able to use it in those southern states. And some of the research in WA is also showing that are some impacts particularly on dingoes but maybe on some of the native birds as well. We need to be confident that it's not going to have too many unintended consequences for the benefit it could deliver.

Gregg Borschmann: So what you're saying is that there's no guarantee that Curiosity will ever get out of the starting blocks?

Andrew Cox: There's no guarantees with biological controls and new baits, you can't put all your eggs in one basket, you need to have a broad investment in a range of biological controls and new baits. I am a bit surprised to see so much investment so far in that one bait, and to hear the government only talking about that as a solution when we still aren't confident it's going to be the solution, and that is why broad investment is necessary.

Gregg Borschmann: Background Briefing has confirmed that questions have been raised in recent studies about the impact of the Curiosity bait on non-target species. These include the two most recent field trials, at Roxby Downs in South Australia and another in the Pilbara region of WA.

We put the issues raised in the studies to Federal Threatened Species Commissioner Gregory Andrews.

Gregory Andrews: So Gregg, I'm not aware of that study and I'd like to learn more about it, and I'm very conscious that we need to make sure that this bait, that will be one part of a broader toolkit, is safe. So both of those studies you are referring to, I'm really interested in learning more about them. They haven't been brought to my attention to yet.

Gregg Borschmann: I pointed out to Gregory Andrews that these studies were funded by the Department of Environment and on their website.

Gregory Andrews: Yes, they're trials and the trials are on-going. So if this was a commercially available bait that was being used widely across Australia now then I would be very concerned. Because it's a trial, what I am most interested in is learning the lessons, and you're telling me of two examples of where testing has been associated with declines in other species. From what I'm hearing they are not declines in threatened species but they are still declines in Australian species, so I'm interested in that, learning more about it and following up on it.

Gregg Borschmann: I also asked Gregory Andrews about the recent field trials at Roxby Downs that found a significant reduction in tracked dingo activity after baiting. As Threatened Species Commissioner, did that concern him?

Gregory Andrews: So dingoes are one of the species that need to be managed carefully with the Curiosity feral cat bait. Dingoes and goannas are the species that I am advised that are most affected.

Gregg Borschmann: Greg Hunt's second priority, or 'wave' as he calls it, is to see trapping and hunting rolled out on a 'massive scale'. This will be delivered, in part, by the new Green Army. Greg Hunt says that the design of the army will ensure that threatened species recovery is fundamental. More than $500 million has been committed to the Green Army over the next four years.

Greg Hunt: If a quarter of that on early indications is directed towards threatened species protection and eradication of threats such as the feral cats, that's $125 million over the next four years. After, that $75 million a year. It's very, very, very significant funding, on a quantum scale larger than anything which has been before.

Gregg Borschmann: The Abbott government recently announced the first round of projects funded under the Green Army. Of 197 projects, not one of them specifically mentions the feral cat. But Threatened Species Commissioner Gregory Andrews says that two of the projects will deal with feral cats.

Gregory Andrews: So a quarter of the Green Army applications roughly had a focus on threatened species. In the current round I am advised that at least two of the projects were feral control to allow for greater protection of native mammals and the management of reintroduced species, and both of those projects cites feral cats and foxes as the key threats. If I can give you an example…

Gregg Borschmann: Sorry to interrupt though, Gregory…two projects out of almost several hundred, that's not 25%.

Gregory Andrews: No, actually 25% of the Green Army projects…roughly 25% had a threatened species element.

Gregg Borschmann: But there was no mention…

Gregory Andrews: But feral cats aren't the only driver, and small mammals, which are the main victims of feral cats, as well as lizards, aren't the only threatened species. We have 1,850 threatened species and many of them are plants.

Gregg Borschmann: Background Briefing has confirmed that each Green Army project receives $190,000. So that's two projects, receiving $380,000, and we don't know how much of that will be spent on cat control.

So if so little is happening on the ground, what about biological control?

Dr Andrew Burbidge was a co-author of the Mammal Action Plan that will be used by Greg Hunt as part of his national blueprint for threatened species. Dr Burbidge is a supporter of biological control. But he says it requires a long-term commitment and 'quite a large amount of money', and that's not happening.

Andrew Burbidge: I am not aware of any current research going on in this area at the moment. There was research in the late '80s and '90s but I think that's all. They had a lot of problems, the funding wasn't continued and it is shut down.

Gregg Borschmann: Andrew Burbidge also points to another problem.

Andrew Burbidge: We have looked in Australia at biological control of foxes and rabbits and house mice at various times, particularly in the late '80s and '90s, there was work done within CSIRO, funded by the federal government, to see whether you could develop the idea of immuno-contraception. That is providing some sort of a trigger in an animal that actually makes it sterile.

Gregg Borschmann: Is one of the problems the fear of what might happen if such a virus was developed that it escaped Australia?

Andrew Burbidge: Yes, I think that having a transmissible virus as the vector for immuno-contraception or whatever other technique's available is not really a viable option because the feral cat has been bred from the wild cat of Africa, Europe and Asia, and if that transmissible disease, that virus escaped Australia or was taken out purposely by someone who, you know, wanted to cause problems in another country, then we would have actually have developed a technique for eradicating native animals in other people's countries, and I just think that's not on.

Gregg Borschmann: In other words, one of the dangers of a transmissible virus of this kind is that it could spread beyond Australia and wipe out the wild cat Felis silvestris, from which the domestic cat, Felis catus has evolved.

I'm Gregg Borschmann, you're listening to Background Briefing here on RN, and this is the story of the great extinctions waves and the feral cat.

Greg Hunt hopes to sign everyone up for a 10-year feral cat eradication plan. But Australia effectively already has one. It was written in 1999 and updated as recently as 2008. But it's been on the shelf and begging for funding.

Andrew Cox from the Invasive Species Council says we don't need to re-invent the wheel.

Andrew Cox: We've got a plan that gives a good strategic approach of how to tackle the impacts of cats across Australia on our biodiversity, but unfortunately very little has been implemented. Certainly the federal government has been missing in action in driving the delivery of that plan and there's virtually no funding for its implementation...well, there is none at the moment, there might have been initially. And almost all of the…actually all of the effort from the federal government is now going into the development of the Curiosity bait.

Gregg Borschmann: So it's a plan, but it's not an action plan?

Andrew Cox: It's a plan with actions, but they're not being actioned on.

Gregg Borschmann: Of course, the federal government has placed a great deal of emphasis on 'practical conservation actions'. That's even in the terms of reference for the Threatened Species Commissioner. So it comes as a surprise that in the Kimberley—Australia's last great biological ark, on the frontline of the second extinction wave—that there is no direct action, at least not on public lands. The last baiting for feral cats was done there in the late 1990s.

Dave Algar from the WA Department of Parks and Wildlife again:

Dave Algar: We're not currently doing any feral cat baiting in the Kimberley. We've done some earlier trials back in the late 1990s and showed that the Eradicat bait could successfully control feral cats up there but at this stage we are not conducting any baiting programs in the Kimberley.

Gregg Borschmann: And is that a problem, because that is the hotspot for this second extinction wave, that's where it is all occurring.

Dave Algar: I really couldn't say. I mean, at this stage the furthest north we work is the Pilbara. It's I guess a question of resources to implement strategic baiting programs up there, and unfortunately I couldn't add to that.

Gregg Borschmann: Yes, but you would have to admit that if this is where we are losing a great deal of the existing biodiversity, shouldn't we be there on the front line?

Dave Algar: As a scientist and a researcher, yes, I believe we should, but the available funding for undertaking these projects is limited and there are obviously other areas where it's considered to be important.

Gregg Borschmann: One bright spot is the new federally funded Threatened Species Recovery Hub. It's got annual funding of more than $5 million, but even with Minister Hunt's 'front and centre' promise, we still don't know what the feral cat will get.

Of course, as governments have struggled to maintain funding and research budgets for this work, private groups such as the Australian Wildlife Conservancy, Bush Heritage and the Foundation for Australia's Most Endangered are increasingly cashed up and stepping into the space.

For example, the work of the AWC on Mornington-Marion Downs stations in the Kimberley has confirmed the intertwined nature of the threat posed by feral cats, fire and grazing pressure. Latest research with sniffer dogs tracking cats shows that the ferals pose the greatest threat to native species after intense ground fires.

So what chance do we have of ever ridding Australia of the feral cat?

Dave Algar: The eradication on the mainland is unlikely to work. Eradication is really only possible on islands.

Gregg Borschmann: Why is that, what's the problem? Why is eradication on the mainland a pipedream?

Dave Algar: Essentially, you target specific areas, you try to be strategic but obviously then you have dispersal into that site following your initial baiting program. So it's an on-going control measure.

Gregg Borschmann: So is it a matter of cost, is it a matter of technology, why couldn't we eradicate on the mainland?

Dave Algar: I don't believe you've got the opportunity to eradicate on the mainland, there's several problems there. I mean, Australia is so vast, the cost would be astronomic to bait the entire continent, and you've still got the ongoing problem of domestic pets getting into the stray population and then into the feral cat population. Until legislation works through that all cats must be de-sexed, you're always going to have some sort of recruitment into that feral population.

Gregg Borschmann: Back on French Island, on the afternoon of the second day, Vaughn Thompson has finally caught a cat. It's in good nick, sleek and obviously well fed. But it doesn't hiss, spit or even miaow. Only domestic cats learn to do that.

Okay, what have we got?

Vaughn Thompson: It's definitely a tabby, and actually by the smell of it, it stinks from a mile away, I don't know if you can smell that, but it's definitely a male.

Gregg Borschmann: Okay, you've got the gun, what is it?

Vaughn Thompson: It's just a .22 mate, nice and cheap. So, they do the job, they do the job for most things; cats, foxes, rabbits, so yeah…

Sometimes you can't get one in straight away because you can see it running back and forth but…

[shot]

That's game over, instant, as you can tell. Sometimes they might give a little bit of a movement but this one…well 99% of the time they won't, but that it, like this one, as you can tell, hasn't moved at all. Nice and quick and cheap.

Gregg Borschmann: Well, there 15-23 million cats in this country and you've just shot one of them. Do you ever imagine a day when Australia won't have feral cats?

Vaughn Thompson: Oh if they learn a lot more about it they might get down to minimal numbers and hopefully one day nought. But unless people start knowing about it and doing something about it there's going to be twice that many in another 10 years, so yeah, hopefully Australians start getting on board.

Gregg Borschmann: Can you ever imagine a time when there'll be no cats on this island, on French Island?

Vaughn Thompson: Hopefully. I don't know if it's ever going to happen because of…I don't know, funding dries up. I don't know if I'll have a job doing what I like to do, maybe by the end of this year either because of the Parks not getting enough funding for me to do contracts, which is a pity...but hopefully I'll stick to it as long as I can.

Gregg Borschmann: Back at the University of Tasmania, zoologist Professor Chris Johnson says Australia may actually be on the wrong path trying to eradicate the feral cat. Part of his solution is the native dingo.

Chris Johnson: Dingoes might not be the only solution or the complete solution, but they are part of a kind of ecological view of how we could reduce the impact of cats. And if you put a few things together, like a fire regime that doesn't help cats, a population of dingoes that hinders cats and maybe minimal livestock grazing that also means there's plenty of cover on the ground for small mammals to get refuge from predators, then we could allow cats and small mammals to co-exist. And I really think that that's actually the vision we should be aiming for and a really optimistic future that we could try and create.

Gregg Borschmann: Of course, there are other ways the feral cat could be tackled. One controversial idea, so controversial that the Victorian government has commissioned a formal independent risk analysis, is to re-introduce the Tasmanian devil into the Wilson's Promontory National Park.

Chris Johnson again:

Chris Johnson: It's quite possible that the Tasmanian devil could help solve some environmental problems in places like Wilson's Promontory, problems to do with overabundant herbivores and too many feral cats, and red foxes as well. The indications from Tasmania are that the devils could be quite significant in controlling the activity and possibly the numbers of feral cats. And that could be part of the reason that until recently feral cats have not done significant damage to wildlife in Tasmania. There are no extinctions of wildlife in Tasmania that we can blame on the feral cat. So we could create a better functioning ecosystem in places like Wilson's Promontory by putting a large predator like the devil back into that system.

Gregg Borschmann: So how much time do we have? And what's at stake if we don't get this right?

Conservation biologist Dr John Woinarski is blunt.

John Woinarski: The future could well be desolate. We've got one of the most distinctive, rich, endemic and interesting faunas in the world, we are remarkably lucky in that respect. And we have trashed it over the past 200 years, and at the current rate of decline it will continue to be trashed. It's probably another generation or so and we will have lost perhaps half of our mammal fauna.

Gregg Borschmann: Background Briefing's co-ordinating producer is Linda McGinness, technical production by Joe Wallace, research by Nardine Groch, additional research by Anna Whitfeld, the executive producer is Wendy Carlisle, and I'm Gregg Borschmann.
====================
We’re building a massive public dataset about new coders

Quincy Larson Blocked Unblock Follow Following Mar 8, 2017

Today we’re launching the 2017 New Coder Survey — an anonymous survey of thousands of people who started coding less than 5 years ago. You can take the survey here.

Last year, more than 15,000 people responded to our 2016 survey. This granted researchers and journalists an unprecedented glimpse into how people are learning to code.

We released the entire dataset of participants’ individual responses to all 48 questions — under the Open Data Common License — on a public GitHub repository.

Then something magical happened. Dozens of data scientists started exploring the data and making all kinds of discoveries. On Kaggle alone, data scientists published more than 50 reports.

We learned a lot from the experience, and have further streamlined our survey. If you have 5 minutes, help researchers understand where you’re coming from. Take the survey.

It’s fun.

It’s completely anonymous.

All the questions are 100% optional (you can just scroll right past any questions you don’t feel like answering)

Even if you’ve already been coding for more than 5 years, you can still help by telling your friends. Share this article on Facebook or tweet it on Twitter.

Also, you can:

view the live results from the outcomes section here

view the live results from the demographic section here

read the final results from our 2016 New Coder Survey here

Thanks for participating, and happy coding!
====================
Statement From The World Boxing Council

Adrien Broner, a former WBC lightweight champion, has offended many people around the world with his words during the interview after his fight with Carlos Molina. [Broner stated, following the May 3rd bout, that he "just beat the f*** out of a Mexican"].



The World Boxing Council holds human equality as its banner and will not accept a former WBC champion to make racially offensive statements.

Since words have different meanings and can be interpreted in different ways, the WBC is issuing this open letter to Adrien Broner to either clarify what he meant with his words or to issue a public apology if those words were intended to be disrespectful and offensive .

Adrien Broner is hereby suspended from participating in any WBC sanctioned championship fights and will be excluded from the WBC Ratings until the time he makes a public apology satisfactorily to the public of the world.

Boxing is a great sport, it is a world sport and boxers are honorable and exemplary members of the community. Fair play and human equality must always be upheld.
====================
1 Kalousova L E-cigarettes: a harm-reduction strategy for socioeconomically disadvantaged smokers?. 2 Pennanen M

Broms U

Korhonen T

et al. Smoking, nicotine dependence and nicotine intake by socio-economic status and marital status. 3 Kotz D

West R Explaining the social gradient in smoking cessation: it's not in the trying, but in the succeeding. Based on her Comment on e-cigarettes,it is hard to avoid the impression that Lucie Kalousova would be happier if there was more smoking-related disease, providing it was more evenly distributed. That poorer groups face barriers to realising the benefits of substituting cigarettes for e-cigarettes is indisputable, but that is a reason to address those barriers, not to argue that e-cigarettes are of no value to poor smokers. By saving money, improving wellbeing, relieving chronic illness, and reducing risks of serious disease, a switch from smoking to vaping could be a major life-enhancing option for the poorest smokers. Low-income status is associated with a greater degree of nicotine dependence,and although the lowest income smokers are just as likely to try to quit smoking, they are about half as likely to succeed as the highest.It follows that a strategy to reduce harm to continuing nicotine users is a promising opportunity for poorer smokers, and not one that should be discarded because it is also popular with more affluent smokers.

4 McRobbie H

McEwen A 5 West R

Brown J Electronic cigarettes: fact and faction. Throughout the world, the public sector has approached this opportunity with denial or equivocation, apparently unable to break away from a medical model of smoking cessation. That is beginning to change, at least in England, with the publication of constructive guidance on e-cigarettes from the National Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training together with Public Health England.Further gains could be made through more proactive concern for the welfare of poor smokers: clear statements by trusted bodies affirming that vaping is likely to have at least a 95% lower risk of serious disease than smoking;the availability of high quality, easily accessible guidance on how to get started; assistance with the upfront microinvestment necessary to access the more effective vaping products with much lower overall costs; and, finally, creation of a supportive policy environment that does not penalise low-income e-cigarette users by imposing a blanket ban on vaping in public places and does not obstruct e-cigarettes from competing with the entrenched cigarette trade.

Copyright © 2015 Alice S./BSIP/Science Photo Library

I have been an advocate of tobacco harm reduction strategies for public health reasons since 1998 and I run a related blog called ‘Counterfactual’ ( www.clivebates.com ). I was Director of Action on Smoking and Health (UK) from 1997 to 2003.
====================
Jeremy Corbyn has called for parliament to be recalled to discuss the crisis facing the steel industry after Tata Steel put thousands of jobs at risk by revealing it plans to pull out of its UK business, including the country’s biggest steelworks at Port Talbot.



UK minister: 'temporary ownership' of steel industry is an option - business live Read more

The Labour leader described the government as being “in disarray” in a letter to David Cameron calling for the recall of MPs from the Easter break. Corbyn has already cut short his holiday in Devon.

Sajid Javid, the business secretary, is now on his way home from Australia to tackle the crisis, while Cameron is also returning from a holiday in Lanzarote.

Downing Street sources said the prime minister was always due to fly home on Wednesday, but he is now expected to meet with ministers tomorrow for an emergency meeting to discuss the Tata Steel decision. After that, he will head to Washington DC for the Nuclear Security Summit.



Javid, who has faced mounting criticism for flying to Australia just as the steel industry crisis intensified, has been forced to cut short a trip during which he was going to attend a meeting on cyber-security on Thursday.



The government is considering providing financial support for Tata Steel’s UK business, including Port Talbot, to allow time for a buyer to be found to save thousands of jobs.



Anna Soubry, the business minister, said the government was prepared to look at a number of options to save Tata’s British business, which employs about 15,000 workers, including 4,000 at Port Talbot.

The IPPR thinktank has claimed that at least 40,000 jobs are at risk from the crisis, including 15,000 at Tata Steel and 25,000 posts in the supply chain.

Corbyn said: “The news that Tata is preparing to pull out of steelmaking in Britain puts thousands of jobs across the country and a strategic UK-wide industry at risk. MPs must have the chance now to debate the future of steel and hold ministers to account for their failure to intervene.

“Steelworkers and their families will be desperately worried about the uncertainty. The government is in disarray over what action to take. Ministers must act now to protect the steel industry, which is at the heart of manufacturing in Britain and vital to its future.”

Cameron has been on holiday in Lanzarote while George Osborne is also out of the country and heading to Paris for a meeting of the G20 finance ministers.

Javid is understood to have spoken to Tata boss Cyrus Mistry on Wednesday morning while in Australia. The business secretary has been “monitoring the situation closely and getting regular updates” while he has been away, according to a government source.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Sajid Javid attends a black tie dinner in Sydney during his visit to Australia. Photograph: ‏@chrisshipitv

But Stephen Kinnock, the Labour MP whose south Wales constituency of Aberavon includes Port Talbot, accused the government of “abject failure” in not standing up for the industry before Tata decided to pull out of the UK.

Asked if the government could take a temporary stake in Port Talbot so that a buyer could be found, Soubry said: “That is an option. We’ve looked at all options.”

Speaking on Radio 4’s Today programme, Soubry declined to commit the government to taking control of a large part of the British steel industry. “I don’t know whether ‘own’ would be the right word. The most important thing is that we look at and continue to look at all options, and I do mean all options,” she said.

One option under consideration is for the government to step in with temporary funding to keep Port Talbot open if a sale looks likely, but any fuller form of nationalisation is said to be off the table.

Soubry said finding a buyer for the business would take months and called on Tata Steel to allow the government time to save the plant. Tata said it had given no specific deadline but that the business was under severe financial strain, and it said it had written down more than £2bn of assets while trying to keep the plant open in the past two years.

Tata Steel, part of the Indian Tata conglomerate, announced late on Tuesday night that its board had rejected a turnaround plan for Port Talbot. Instead, it decided to sell the UK business, which includes the remnants of British Steel.



Union leaders travelled to Mumbai to discuss the company’s UK business, hoping that Tata would agree to a turnaround plan to keep steelmaking in Port Talbot and at other UK plants. The decision to sell will affect other Tata plants, including Rotherham, Corby and Shotton. It is in the process of selling its business in Scunthorpe to investment company Greybull Capital.

Kinnock also travelled to Mumbai to make the case for Tata remaining in the UK. He said the company was not to blame and had invested large sums of money in an effort to keep the business going. Instead, Kinnock pointed the finger at the British government, which he accused of being a “ringleader” in seeking to prevent the European commission from being given powers to stop China dumping cheap steel.

“We are rolling out the red carpet for Beijing,” Kinnock said, arguing that Britain was pushing for China to get market economy status at the World Trade Organisation, despite the fact that 80% of its steel industry is state owned. “They are in hock to China. Our commercial policy, our approach to trade and manufacturing, and our overall industrial strategy, is being dictated by Beijing.”

He said Tata executives in Mumbai expressed frustration at the government’s lack of action to support the industry. Kinnock criticised ministers for agreeing to a multibillion-pound defence contract late last year that will use Swedish steel.



Soubry said she did not know “the fine detail” of the Scottish government’s rescue deal for the Dalzell and Clydebridge plants that allowed their sale to metals group Liberty House last week. She said the government was determined to save Port Talbot, but that it would be a far bigger task than the Scottish rescue.

“There is this absolute determination by the prime minister, myself and business secretary Sajid that we want to see steel being made – not just rolled and milled – at Port Talbot,” Soubry said.

The actor Michael Sheen, who grew up in Port Talbot, said the government had to provide as much support as possible and that Tata should be a responsible seller.

Writing for the Guardian, he said: “The ‘determination’ that business minister Anna Soubry declared her government has to ensure that Port Talbot continues to make steel needs to now produce urgent action.”

A government source said Tata Steel’s decision to look for a seller instead of shutting its operations gave ministers more options. “We will now want to work very hard to support that process. We want to look at ways that we can continue to support Port Talbot,” the source said.

We bailed out the bankers. Welsh steelworkers deserve no less | Michael Sheen Read more

The government does not accept that it has been too soft on blocking Chinese steel dumping. Officials have argued that granting China market economy status does not stop Europe increasing tariffs on Chinese steel, and claimed that the government’s action in the EU has been to stop changes to a ruling that could harm British consumers in areas other than steel.



Roy Rickhuss, the general secretary of the Community union, called on Cameron to meet him urgently to discuss how to save Port Talbot and the wider industry. “The UK is now on the verge of a national crisis. Tata Steel withdrawing completely from the UK risks destroying our entire steel industry. That would be a disaster both for those communities reliant on steel jobs and our entire industrial base,” he said.

“I am calling on David Cameron to meet with me urgently to discuss how his government and my union can work together to safeguard the future of our steel industry.”
====================
PHILADELPHIA -- Add catcher to the Philadelphia Phillies' needs this offseason.

All-Star Carlos Ruiz was suspended Tuesday for the first 25 games of next season following a positive test for an amphetamine. The 33-year-old catcher had a career year in 2012, hitting .325 with 16 homers and 68 RBIs in 114 games.

"I am sincerely regretful for my mistake in taking a prohibited stimulant," Ruiz said in a statement issued by the Major League Baseball Players Association. "I apologize to my teammates, the Phillies organization and the Philadelphia fans. I will serve the imposed 25-game suspension to begin the season and I look forward to returning to the field and working toward bringing a championship back to Philadelphia in 2013."

Ruiz will be eligible to participate in spring training, including exhibition games.

"The Phillies fully support Major League Baseball's drug program," the team said. "We are disappointed by the news of this violation of the program. We will support Carlos in an appropriate manner and move forward to achieve our goal to play championship-caliber baseball in 2013."

Erik Kratz will likely begin the 2013 season as Philadelphia's starting catcher while Ruiz serves his suspension. Kratz, a career minor leaguer, filled in nicely when he finally got a chance after Ruiz went down with a foot injury. Kratz hit .248, but had nine doubles, nine homers and 26 RBIs in only 141 at-bats. Kratz also threw out 45 percent of base-stealers (15 of 33).

Still, losing Ruiz hurts a lineup that struggled mightily last year. Ruiz moved up from his usual No. 8 spot and took over for an injured Ryan Howard as the team's cleanup hitter for a chunk of the season. He batted fifth after Howard returned in July.

The Phillies, who finished 81-81 after winning five straight NL East titles, have several holes to fill. Only Howard, Chase Utley and Jimmy Rollins are certain regulars. Utley, though, didn't play until late May in 2011 and late June in 2012 because of chronic knee injuries.

General manager Ruben Amaro Jr. hopes to add a starting center fielder, another starting outfielder and a third baseman either through free agency or trades. Now he'll also need a backup catcher for Kratz for the first month. Brian Schneider served as the team's primary backup the last three seasons, but only batted .212 in 122 games.

The Phillies have two top prospects catching in the minors. Sebastian Valle hit .253 with 17 homers and 58 RBIs in 80 games at Double-A Reading and Triple-A Lehigh Valley. Tommy Joseph, acquired in the trade that sent Hunter Pence to San Francisco, hit .257 with 11 homers and 48 RBIs for the Giants' and Phillies' Double-A affiliates.

Ruiz became the eighth player suspended this year under the major league testing program, the second for amphetamines following Baltimore shortstop Ryan Adams. The eight suspensions are the most since 2007.

This had to be Ruiz's second positive test for a stimulant. An initial positive for a stimulant does not trigger a suspension, only that the player must undergo follow-up testing. There have been 102 suspensions this year under the minor league testing program.
====================
Maram Susli aka "Syrian Girl", "Partisan Girl" via Youtube

Follow > Disable alert for Maram Susli Disable alert for Youtube Disable alert for Sydney Disable alert for Damascus Disable alert for Aleppo Disable alert for Obama Disable alert for Twitter Disable alert for Davos Disable alert for Bashar al Assad Follow >

A lot of Syria experts don’t like Maram Susli, also known as “PartisanGirl.” The Damascus born blogger runs popular accounts on Youtube and Twitter from Australia.

She’s an outspoken advocate of Bashar Al Assad, and consistently questions western media accounts of the Syrian War, as well as the intentions of the United States generally. Her refusal to acknowledge that Bashar Al Assad deployed chemical weapons against his own people, or that he was responsible for brutal crackdowns in Damascus in the Spring of 2011, have led to claims that her work is a deliberate source of pro-Russia, pro-Iran propaganda online.

It’s convenient to dismiss Susli as some or all of the above. To do so ignores the battle for Syria that has been taking place across online networks since 2012. It ignores the fact that many inside the region will find her comments on western intent in Syria to be self-evident. More importantly, it allows analysts to sidestep the profound lack of any moral principle or guiding vision in regard to the Middle East's biggest proxy war.

o



The Beginnings of the Syrian Proxy War

Susli started writing about Syria in 2012. Around that time the once beautiful city of Aleppo saw intense fighting. That same year, President Obama would refer to the use of Chemical Weapons in Syria as a “Red Line.” More than any other actor involved in the Syrian War - and there are dozens - Susli blames the United States.

“It’s always been a proxy war, it would be naive to think otherwise, these plans for this scenario were in the works before 2003 - if you consider Israel’s agenda in the Middle East they wrote about it in 1982. The agenda to balkanise the middle east was also written about in the think-tanks of the United States, in 2006 they called it the project for a New Middle East - maps reflected Syria balkanised into a Druze region, an alawite region, sunni region, kurdish region.”

In the Middle East, these statements feed into mainstream memories of colonial rule in Syria, the effects of the 1967 Israeli War, and the results of intervention in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya.

In the West, these arguments operate in a context of failing trust in key institutions - particularly the media, and the foreign policy establishment. By constantly questioning incomplete media narratives on the Syrian War on twitter and Youtube, as well as referring back to almost a hundred years of divide and rule in the region, Partisan Girl feeds this distrust, at the same time as directly benefiting from it. For example, her points on the selectively of western media outlets - what is covered, and what is not covered - are at times reliably sourced, or simply effectively made.

“I see that you are asking me to apply the same cynicism to Russian and Syrian politics as I do to US politics, but its not the same. In one case you have an aggressive power that wants to dominate, that wants to control. On the other case, you have a nation state that is fighting for its right to exist - its very existence.”



Russia & Iran: Syria's Best Friends

Susli believes that the existential threat to Syria comes not from Iran and Russia, but from the United States and the West. This opinion is not controversial in the region. What is slightly more unusual, is the cheerleading for Bashar Al Assad, and support for Iran and Russia inside Syria:

“Bashar on the other hand, and Iran, while they are looking after their own interests, their interests are also ones that benefit the Syrian people. Iran’s interest is to oppose Israel, and that helps the Syrian people and Syrian country because it helps the potential liberation of the Syrian people in the Golan Heights. Russia is helpful in the fight against terrorism. The question is whether Syria has the independence to choose any ally that benefits the Syrian people, and those allies are obviously going to be Iran and Russia."

Susli’s conviction that the best and only future for the Syrian people can exist with Bashar Al Assad at the helm, flanked by his Russian and Iranian allies, is dispiriting.

It reflects decades - perhaps a century - of failed western policy in the region. Many Syrians don’t simply distrust western powers. They fear them. There’s also an element of realpolitik here, a deep cynicism about the world we live in: it suggests that integrating Assad back into the international system will not, in the final estimation, be all that hard. Give it a couple of years, and we’ll see a dictator reformed, smiling at us on global television screens at Davos, or the WEF, in that finely cut beige suit. Is this really the best-case scenario?

The Online Battle For Syria

In 2017, a truly independent Syria - a Syria free from proxies, with a thriving social life, and a globally integrated economy, is impossible to imagine. It’s the not the Middle East countless administrations promised.

Partisan Girl may be wrong, but she is not illogical. Neither does she pretend to be objective. She regards herself as partisan, because she is a patriot. There is a sense that she is fighting for the future of her country, towards a scenario which she has identified as the best case scenario. The real question is not why Partisan Girl is wrong, it’s why her arguments have proven so attractive and accurate, to so many.

Her logic is born from the miserable logic of the region. It’s directly aided by an English-language media too afraid to call out their own side, when necessary. It’s designed and optimised to be deployed across social media, where nuance will not win a narrative.

The online battle for Syria is not about policy. It’s about power and choosing a side, when both sides have deeply flawed visions for the future of the country. Partisan Girl has chosen her side - she’s simply more honest about it.
====================
As many of you know, I teach in the religion department of a major university. I am also running as hard as I can to unseat Rodney Davis in Illinois’ 13 District. His support for the tax bill shows clearly why this race is so very important.

The bill that he and his Republican colleagues just helped pass will do enormous damage to scientific research in the United States, and will hurt communities and institutions in our district, including the University of Illinois, Illinois State University, and Southern Illinois University - Edwardsville. If passed into law, the bill will make graduate students in universities pay federal tax on money they never see, namely waivers of tuition for the universities in which they are enrolled.

Nearly 100% of research scientists in the United States receive their training in graduate programs. They receive modest financial stipends, which are augmented by a waiver of tuition for their courses. Today, without the additional tax burden imposed by Republicans in Congress, a great many graduate students must work additional part-time jobs to make ends meet. They forge ahead because they are dedicated to their work and believe in the power of research and education to make the world better.

Taxing tuition waivers will be an enormous disincentive for the pursuit of research careers. For all but the most wealthy, this tax will be an insurmountable barrier. And the big loser will be American science and technology, on which our prosperity and well-being depend. From crop science and climate science to mechanical engineering and virology, the effects will be immediate and damaging. Many foolish ideas are created in Washington, and some even become law. In terms of damage to our nation, this single component of the tax bill may be the worst idea ever.

Representative Davis wants to have it both ways. He says that he is opposed to taxing graduate student tuition waivers but voted for this bill anyway. Talk is cheap. The costs of this tax bill will be enormous and far reaching.

As your congressman I will value students, value educators, and value research in the sciences and the humanities.
====================
We continue our ongoing profile of OpenStreetMap in countries and regions around the world by interviewing Mark Iliffe and Geoffrey Kateregga about the State of OSM in Tanzania.

Gentlemen, thanks for speaking with us. Let’s dive in:

1. Who are you and what do you do? What got you into OpenStreetMap?

Mark: I’m Mark Iliffe, a Geospatial Innovation Specialist in the World Bank’s Transport and ICT Global Practice and I supervise the Ramani Huria project in mapping for flood resilience in Dar es Salaam, the largest city in Tanzania. This is a consortium of the Tanzanian Commission of Science and Technology, World Bank and the Red Cross. To do this, I lead a team of data scientists, urban planners and programmers to help support the mapping and to work with the Government of Tanzania, the City Council of Dar es Salaam and others to understand how to use OSM data to improve their ability to understand the scope of flooding and to effect change in the city with the aim of preventing future flooding. I started contributing to OSM in 2008, interned at Cloudmade, writing a routing engine for OSM data. Serendipitously, I ended up in Kenya, volunteering for a too small time on Map Kibera in Kenya then project managing the Ramani Tandale mapping project in Tanzania. Both projects utilised OSM to map slums, places where residents live on less than $1.25 without access to clean water or sanitation facilities. These two experiences for me took OSM from being a hobby that I messed around with at the weekends to something that could truly empower and enrich people’s livelihoods, by first allowing communities to map their own environment, then for those maps to be used for planning and addressal of challenges within their community.

_Geoffrey: _My name is Geoffrey Kateregga, I work as the lead mapping supervisor for the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team in Tanzania working on the Ramani Huria - Community Mapping for Flood Resilience project. I got involved into OpenStreetMap working on the Mapping Day project aimed at building a network of enthusiastic mappers in Uganda through organising mapping events and local OSM trainings. There is huge gap in terms of maps in Africa, it’s great to make maps where almost no data is in existence.

2. What would you say is the current state of OSM and the OSM community in Tanzania?

Geoffrey: 2015 has marked a great step in the growth of the OSM community in Tanzania because of Ramani Huria - supported by the World Bank in collaboration with HOT, COSTECH, Tanzania Red Cross Society, Ardhi University and University of Dar es Salaam. Over 160 students and 200 community members have been trained in OpenStreetMap and have become part of the OSM community in Tanzania. In combination with regular mapping parties, this has grown the OSM community considerably over the past half a year.

Mark: OSM is growing steadily, since the start of community mapping in early 2015 the size of the OpenStreetMap dataset for Tanzania (in ‘pbf’ format) has grown from 10.8 MB to 29 MB, additionally, 265 km of waterways as of August 31 ​(compared to 73 km at the start of the year), 2091 km of roads (compared to 1500 km at the start of the year), and the amount of schools has increased from 3 to 799. This has been primarily in Dar es Salaam, but through collaboration between Ramani Huria and local innovation and technology hubs such as BUNI and KINU we’ve widened the scope of mapping to cover other cities such as Dodoma, Tanga and Mwanza. In doing this, we’re aiming at building knowledge and participation in OSM to support and build a local community of contributors and developers. While this is ongoing, our core mission is to continually engage with residents and government in OSM too. These people aren’t from OSM’s traditional contributor base of tech savvy young, and they provide insights into environments and features that just aren’t collected in the developed world.

3. What are the unique challenges and pleasures of OpenStreetMap in Tanzania? What aspects of the projects should the rest of the world be aware of?

Mark: Tanzania is changing quickly. Dar es Salaam is one of the fastest growing cities in Africa and collecting OSM data requires the pioneering of different approaches. This has meant on-the-ground mapping and actively reaching out to communities to gain different knowledge and information. This can mean working with a local community based organisation to understand where areas are flooding, to working with Missing Maps to digitise UAV imagery done by the global commons. The challenge of seeing how it’s changing so fast is its greatest pleasure of mapping in Tanzania. I remember landing on a hot and dusty Saturday in 2011, to now in 2015 the rate of growth and change in the city is astonishing and a true pleasure to see. For our project, I’d really like the rest of the world to see how OSM can truly be inclusive, and not just the preserve of the few. Our community is making steps to becoming more diverse and inclusionary and it’s important to value all that contribute, regardless of their technical skills or ability. I don’t think OSM is just about putting data on the map; it’s so much more than that and more people can contribute in their own way, I think we value each contribution equally whether it’s participation at a community forum to collecting data.

Geoffrey: Through collaboration with the Tanzanian Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH) and the Tanzania Open Data Initiative (TODI) and collaborating with Drone Adventures, the OpenStreetMap community in Tanzania has access to aerial imagery with resolution of up to 3cm per pixel. The imagery is available on beta.openaerialmap.org, and provides the community a unique opportunity to produce highly accurate maps for Dar es Salaam. However, more needs to be done to extend coverage to the whole of Tanzania with support from government.

4. What steps could the global OpenStreetMap community take to help support OSM in Tanzania specifically and Africa generally?

Mark: I think that for our project, we’ll see new ways of collecting data, ultimately towards OSM moving to being a standard way of collecting and storing geospatial data. I think we as a community need to work out how to enable mass imports and workflows to facilitate mapping in areas that may not have a community, towards provide baseline data for the world. 10 years ago, aerial imagery wasn’t as ubiquitous as it is now, currently it requires large amounts of time to digitise this imagery. If this could have been done automatically, through auto classification, then imports, we could have utilised the same resources used for Ramani Huria to cover a much wider area. Some parts of the community in OSM, do not want this and primarily see OSM as an activity done manually. This is a completely valid judgement when considering active contributor communities in the USA, Germany and the UK and should be their right to choose their mode of engagement. In others in emerging economies such as Tanzania, the OSM community is sparse and less able to volunteer. This is compounded by the criticality and need for data, in other western countries there is an alternative to OSM, here there is no alternative, I believe this outweighs the argument of manual collection. OSM is being used for urban planning and flood resilience by officials, getting as much data as they can get will be important in allowing them the space to make their own decisions. The faster we as a community can respond to this, it will be to the betterment of OSM as a global project and help OSM deliver improvements to governments and citizens across emerging economies. The steps to do this will be hard for our community and will require us to think long and hard about our policies and license. Share-alike is something that we as a community need to discuss, I think that it inhibits us from truly making OSM a global standard repository for map data, we need to be able to work with and get as much data as possible.

Geoffrey: It would help tremendously to organize a “State of the Map Africa” to raise awareness; something on that scale has never happened before. There is a need to bring together all the mappers in different parts of Africa to share experiences and learn from each other. There has been constant growth in OSM with support from Missing Maps, MapGive and HOT which can be cemented by coming together as a community. This can be achieved with support from other communities which have organised State of the Map conferences.

5. Last year OSM celebrated its 10th birthday, where do you think the project will be in 10 years time, both globally and in Tanzania specifically?

Geoffrey: The future of OpenStreetMap looks bright in Tanzania and Africa at large, its growth through Universities provides a good opportunity for the students to work on something practical while at the same time contributing free Geo-Spatial information. This has the potential to really make a difference through its use in government, as a basis for informing decisions and policy making. The potential for these uses is much larger than the data available from commercial vendors, precisely because of its open nature.

Mark: In 10 years, I hope that we’ll be in two places, one we are focusing on updating and maintaining a map, no longer filling in ‘gaps’ in the map covering cities and countries - everyone needs a map, that map should be OSM. Secondly, that our community will professionalise. Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT) has shown the value that OSM has for humanitarian contexts, companies such as Mapbox, CartoDB and Scout also demonstrate the value that companies can bring to OSM, in a decade. I hope that the OSMF moves in the same manner as HOT, in having an Executive Director and staff that nurture and support the community, this model is not too dissimilar from other non-profit projects such as Wikipedia. Ultimately, that should help better define direction of the project and support the volunteer contributors, coders, community members and board members and share the good burdens of our project. The impact of this support would aid the deployment and gathering of data in Tanzania. For Tanzania specifically, I hope that a community emerges from Ramani Huria, one that is supported by the local innovation hubs, academic partners, NGOs, businesses and Tanzanian OSM community members.

Many thanks to both of you, for the interview but also for all the hard work in Tanzania. Great to learn of the impressive progress and hopefully it is the start of much more, especially around the powerful tool that aerial imagery can become for data collection. We encourage all readers to get involved.

You can see all the Open Geo interviews here. If you are or know of someone we should interview, please get in touch, we’re always looking to promote people doing interesting things with open geo data.
====================
Google's Play Store finally has its very first app with five billion downloads, and that title unsurprisingly goes to Google Play Services. The Google Play Services framework is required to use most Google-made apps aside from the actual Play Store, along with any apps that use certain solutions from the company such as the Maps API, Google+, and Google Wallet. The Google Play Services app is the front for that framework; the download contains the framework, and the app itself installs the framework and handles interactions with it internally. It has no user-accessible interface, meaning that the title of the first user-facing Android app with five billion downloads is still up for grabs.

Due to the way the Play Store operates, the app's download range won't be updated again until it reaches ten billion downloads. Google Play Services was last updated on July 10, bringing it up to the version 11.0.4. The update included fixes for apps that use Google's Firebase cloud framework, changes to how in-app advertising is handled, and tweaks for APIs used in Google Play Games and other services. Recently, the version 11 update family for Google Play Services, having started its rollout back in May, introduced full compatibility for Android Instant Apps.

Using Google Play Services rather than integrating such functionality into APIs for use by developers on a per-app basis is arguably a far more favorable approach to integration between third-party apps and Google's software solutions, but many users on the Play Store complain about the size of the app, how ubiquitous it is, issues with updating it, and other problems. Mostly, the app poses a problem for some legacy devices with extremely small amounts of RAM and storage, some of which are either unable to install many or any apps after installing Google Play Services, or are unable to install the software at all. The size of the app can vary between Android versions and devices, but averages around 80MB. Even with the issues it can pose for legacy devices, it has served as a very effective integration tool from Android's inception, and Google will likely keep it that way for the foreseeable future.
====================
"Dominator I" sounds more like a monster truck than a collection of small boxes that collectively erase 20 years of relatively secure wireless phone service, doesn't it? Alas, what you're looking at here is a convenient, plug-and-play solution for exploiting the hard work the world's hacking community has put into cracking the A5/1 encryption used on GSM networks in Europe and the US over the past few years. The system consists of two nondescript white boxes, two directional antennas that you'll point in the direction of your victim, and a laptop that you can use to get a glimpse at all of the phones currently connected to your nearest cell site and record up to four active calls simultaneously -- and if you're more of the text messaging type, Dominator I's got you covered there, too, with full access to SMS. The company claims that the system was "declassified only last week" and is completely undetectable both by the operator and the end user, putting it in this rare nexus of "awesome" and "completely terrifying." It can't do the 128-bit A5/3 used in UMTS, but now that it's been cracked in a somewhat practical way , we're sure the Dominator II can't be far behind. Follow the break for Meganet's video of the system in action.
====================
The OPCW Director-General, Ambassador Ahmet Üzümcü, reported to the Executive Council today that 100% of all Category 1 chemicals declared by the Syrian Arab Republic, totalling approximately 1,040 tonnes, have now been verified as destroyed. This includes 133 tonnes of Isopropanol previously destroyed on-site in Syria.

The Director-General reported OPCW inspectors have also verified that 70% of approximately 260 tonnes of Syria’s Category 2 chemicals have been destroyed as well, and in total, 94% of its entire declared stockpile. He said work continues to complete destruction of remaining chemicals at four facilities in Finland, the United Kingdom, the United States and eventually, the destruction of effluent from the Cape Ray in Germany.

“I wish to acknowledge, once again, the valuable contributions made by the States Parties involved in this extraordinary effort, especially in carrying out destruction of Category 1 chemicals in a rapid, effective and safe manner,” the Director-General said.

The Special Coordinator for the OPCW-UN Joint Mission, Ms Sigrid Kaag, also addressed the Executive Council meeting and praised the international efforts to disarm Syria.

“This operation has been an exemplary model of multilaterism at work,” Ms Kaag said. “We all have shown what can be achieved when all international partners work together towards a common goal.”

Other issues reported to the Council in today’s meeting regarding the ongoing mission in Syria:
====================
Sen. Bernie Sanders Bernard (Bernie) SandersSenate Dems seek to turn tables on GOP in climate change fight Bernie Sanders Town Hall finishes third in cable news race, draws 1.4 million viewers Woman to undecided Biden: 'Just say yes' to 2020 bid MORE (I-Vt.) on Sunday touted Hillary Clinton Hillary Diane Rodham ClintonREAD: Cohen testimony alleges Trump knew Stone talked with WikiLeaks about DNC emails County GOP in Minnesota shares image comparing Sanders to Hitler Holder: 'Time to make the Electoral College a vestige of the past' MORE over Donald Trump Donald John TrumpREAD: Cohen testimony alleges Trump knew Stone talked with WikiLeaks about DNC emails Trump urges North Korea to denuclearize ahead of summit Venezuela's Maduro says he fears 'bad' people around Trump MORE, saying that, "in a sense," a vote for a third-party candidate is a vote for Trump, the Republican presidential nominee.

ADVERTISEMENT

"I think it's that the evidence is overwhelming that the next president of the United States is going to be Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump," Sanders said on ABC's "This Week."

"I think if you're voting for somebody else in the sense of not supporting Clinton because she doesn't live up to all of your specifications or all of your ideas, I think, in a sense, it is a vote for Trump."

Sanders then said voters should look at Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson Gary Earl JohnsonPotential GOP primary challenger: Trump's 'contempt for the American people' behind possible bid The Hill's 12:30 Report — Presented by Kidney Care Partners — Trump escalates border fight with emergency declaration Former Mass. governor takes step toward Trump primary challenge MORE's record on the environment and the economy.

"It is a very conservative approach, something that I think most of my supporters do not support," Sanders said.

The Vermont senator also urged people to contrast the positions of Trump with those of Clinton, the Democratic nominee, calling on voters to select a candidate based on the issues.

He cited Clinton's positions on climate change, minimum wage and pay equity for women and slammed Trump's positions on these issues.

Sanders has been campaigning for his former Democratic primary rival recently, urging voters to get on board with the Clinton campaign.
====================
"Insect queen" redirects here. For the comics characters, see Insect Queen

Apis mellifera scutellata Queen (marked) and workers of the Africanised honey bee,

The gyne is the primary reproductive female caste of social insects (especially ants, wasps, and bees of order Hymenoptera, as well as termites). Gynes are those destined to become queens, whereas female workers are typically sterile and cannot become queens. A colony with multiple queens is said to be a polygyne form, whereas with only one is a monogyne form.

The fire ant Solenopsis invicta is known to have colonies in both polygyne and monogyne forms.

The small red ant, Leptothorax acervorum, has colonies that switch from monogyny to polygyny as a result of seasonal fluctuations.[1]

The little fire ant Wasmannia auropunctata produces unique kinds of meiotic oocytes with a drastic reduction in recombination. These oocytes may either fuse together for gyne production (automictic parthenogenesis with central fusion) or be fertilized by male gametes for the production of workers.[2]

In the wasp species Apoica flavissima queens display distinct morphological differences from the sterile worker class. In Ropalidia plebeiana, gynes do not stay in the nest after they emerge as adults, but may spend their winters in their maternal nests. [3]

In species lacking morphological castes (i.e., where "workers" may not be sterile), the term "gyne" is usually reserved for those females whose entire life is spent as a reproductive or potential reproductive, as opposed to those who start life as a worker and subsequently attain reproductive status (often called a "replacement queen" or a "laying worker"). These can be seen in certain species of stingless bee like the Plebeia remota where both gynes and workers are capable of reproducing.[4] In most species with annual colony cycles, only gynes can enter diapause and overwinter, while workers – both non-reproductive and reproductive – die off. In some groups, such as paper wasps, gynes join with other gynes at the time of nest founding, and may be relegated to subordinate reproductive roles, so being a gyne does not guarantee that a female will become a queen.

See also [ edit ]
====================
Here are the best bits:

"The sins of Daddy Cameron were not illegal but they are utterly disgusting. They are worse than the sins of fathers up and down the country who can’t find work, even the most feckless amongst them.

People who don’t pay their taxes are robbing from us all. The Camerons may well have forked out for education and health services, but it was my money that trained the doctors, nurses and teachers they used. Without the taxpayer the posh who jump the queue would just be sitting in a rather nicely decorated room without the staff to actually deliver the service. Every time Cameron Snr drove his car on a public highway, every time he could see on the street because of a streetlight, every day when there was a pavement outside his house and a regular bin collection, he took money from you, the nation’s honest taxpayers, without seeing fit to put his hand in his pocket. And while the Camerons had a bob or two I doubt very much they funded their own private police force and army. I mean the Eton set are a bit old fashioned but think the acts of livery and maintenance is a step to far even for them. So they got the security we all enjoy but it was you footing the bill, not daddy darling."
====================
A taxi driver "lost control" of his vehicle, causing an accident which left three people in hospital and a trail of destruction across all eight lanes of Scotts Road yesterday.

Witnesses said the blue ComfortDelGro cab was exiting Claymore Hill beside Shaw House when it barged past a white Toyota Alphard, before hitting a passing Hyundai Avante just before 2pm.

It then crashed through the centre divider and hit a passing dark grey Volvo on the other side, before coming to a stop against a lamp post in front of Scotts Square.

The impact was so strong that the Volvo's airbags were deployed.

The taxi driver - thought to be a man in his 60s - was taken to hospital unconscious with a head wound, along with the driver of the Hyundai and a boy understood to have been a passenger in the Volvo.

Mr Jumaat Azhar, 24, who works at the nearby Michael Kors outlet, told The Straits Times: "The taxi driver was completely covered in blood and unconscious. I think he was bleeding from his head."

He rushed out to help after hearing "a loud bang". Mr Jumaat added that a man was attending to the taxi driver, so he called 995 before sprinting back into the mall to get an automated external defibrillator kit.

"The accident caused a traffic jam that stretched all the way back beyond what I could see," he said.

The driver of the seven-seater Toyota Alphard, Mr Hisham Badarun, 47, a driver for a construction company, told The Straits Times he was waiting to filter onto Scotts Road from Claymore Hill when he was struck by the taxi.

"It hit me from behind, then reversed, then moved forward and hit me again, before squeezing past on my left side onto the main road. I think the driver lost control of the vehicle." Except for "a big shock", Mr Hisham was fine. His was the only vehicle in which everyone escaped unscathed.

The driver of the silver Hyundai Avante, Mr Rashid Hassim, 32, was heading to his office in Tampines from Ion Orchard.

"It was loud, and my car spun. Now, the left side of my body is in pain, from my chest to my leg," said the IT support engineer.

The conditions of the taxi driver and boy were not known last night. The Singapore Civil Defence Force sent three ambulances to the scene. Police are investigating.
====================
Description

PlayStation®VR is not for use by children under the age of 12.



This item includes some VR content. PlayStation®VR and PlayStation®Camera are required to experience VR functionality.

WHERE THE WORLD COMES TO RACE



From the first dizzying rush of acceleration to the last split-second finish the real driving simulator is back. Experience the thrill of racing motorsport’s fastest cars in intense online competitions and classic single-player game modes – geared for new drivers and seasoned pros alike.



• Get behind the wheel of over 170 of the world’s most sought-after vehicles, with true-to-life visuals and stunningly realistic handling.

• Race on masterfully recreated tracks in iconic locations, including the legendary Nürburgring and Tokyo Expressway.

• Compete against the world in official, FIA-endorsed online championships, and in GT League – a single-player campaign mode featuring classic cups and endurance races.



Internet required for most functionality.



1-2 players

Network Players 2-20 - Full game requires PlayStation®Plus membership to access online multiplayer

DUALSHOCK®4 Vibration Function

Remote Play Supported

HD Video Output 720p,1080i,1080p

PlayStation®VR is compatible with this product.

PlayStation® VR and PlayStation® Camera required for VR functionality.



Download of this product is subject to the PlayStation Network Terms of Service and our Software Usage Terms plus any specific additional conditions applying to this product. If you do not wish to accept these terms, do not download this product. See Terms of Service for more important information.

One-time licence fee to download to multiple PS4 systems. Sign in to PlayStation Network is not required to use this on your primary PS4, but is required for use on other PS4 systems.

See Health Warnings for important health information before using this product.

Library programs ©Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. exclusively licensed to Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Software Usage Terms apply, See eu.playstation.com/legal for full usage rights.



Gran Turismo™ Sport ©2017 Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. Published by Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Developed by Polyphony Digital Inc. “Polyphony Digital logo”, “Gran Turismo” and “GT” are registered trademarks of Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc. Manufacturers, cars, names, brands and associated imagery featured in this game in some cases include trademarks and/or copyrighted materials of their respective owners. Any depiction or recreation of real world locations, entities, businesses, or organizations is not intended to be or imply any sponsorship or endorsement of this game by such party or parties. All rights reserved.
====================
Somebody recently told me he's heard that Hank Hanegraaff has been attending an Eastern Orthodox church. This individual was also concerned about a report that Hanegraaff had become an Orthodox catechumen, though some people with a close relationship with the Christian Research Institute (CRI) told him that it's not true.Before I cite some of Hanegraaff's recent positive comments about Orthodoxy, I want to give some examples of how mixed his comments about Evangelicalism and Orthodoxy have been over the years. He'll make comments that are highly supportive of Orthodoxy at one point, but identify himself as an Evangelical, or at least seem to do so, at another point. In response to a call beginning at 47:22 on his October 15, 2014 radio program , he distinguishes between what Orthodox believe about the Apocrypha and what "we" believe. On the other hand, in response to a call at 40:17 on his May 5, 2016 program , Hanegraaff misrepresented the history of eucharistic doctrine, as if there was agreement about an Eastern Orthodox view of a eucharistic presence during the first millennium of church history. A little past the 50:00 point in his February 8, 2017 program , he comments that "I have the scripture as my rule of faith and practice", which sounds Evangelical, but may not be intended that way. He doesn't use a qualifier like "alone". Near the beginning of Hanegraaff's March 8, 2017 radio program , he commented that Mary is "the apex of all of humanity" and "the model for all that we are to become in Christ", going on to say that "while Islam venerates Muhammad, Christianity venerates Mary". Later in the same program, when discussing other topics, he seems to affirm some Evangelical and non-Orthodox positions at some points, yet uses more ambiguous language and language that seems more in line with Orthodoxy at other points. See the call on baptism and salvation at 23:13 and the call on the imputation of Christ's righteousness and confession of sin at 46:51. Hanegraaff has been discussing Orthodoxy more than usual on his program lately. In response to a call at 39:29 on the November 11, 2014 program , Hanegraaff comments that Orthodoxy never strays from its principles, in contrast to Roman Catholicism. He also comments that though there are some problematic Orthodox churches, there are others that are "completely committed to the gospel". While responding to a call that begins at 30:40 in his June 14, 2016 program , Hanegraaff claims that Orthodoxy was "the only church" prior to the split between West and East in the eleventh century. Here's a video segment of his January 25, 2017 program in which he refers to Eastern Orthodoxy as orthodox, "fantastic", "the early church", etc. In response to a call beginning at 6:17 on his February 8, 2017 program , Hanegraaff outlines an Orthodox view of justification, describing it in a way that seems to be supportive of it. He also refers to how the Orthodox view of justification predates the Catholic and Protestant views, without further qualification. Near the end of his response to the call, he refers to how his wife has been reading the church fathers on this subject, which may explain part of what's influencing Hanegraaff on these matters. See his March 14, 2017 program here (starting at 9:56), where he refers to the alleged unity of the early church, makes some comments critical of Roman Catholicism, and refers to Protestantism as a further "schism" of the Western church, all the while saying nothing negative about Eastern Orthodoxy. More recently, on his April 4 program (start listening at 22:10), he referred to how he's always been interested in Orthodoxy, how the church allegedly had unity during the first millennium of Christianity until the Pope broke that unity, how he's recently been influenced by Orthodox individuals who have a "keen sense of church history", how he "absolutely loves" how Orthodoxy affirms the presence of Christ in the eucharist while "leaving it in the realm of mystery", etc.I don't know just how much the segments of his program mentioned above reflect where Hanegraaff stands in relationship to Orthodoxy. Maybe he's made other comments elsewhere that would significantly qualify what I've cited above. But the impression I have at this point is that he's at least moved a long way toward Orthodoxy. However much he still holds some Evangelical beliefs that are opposed to Orthodox beliefs, he may not do so much longer. His current Evangelical positions on some issues may not have much significance. He may be in a transitional phase that will lead him away from those Evangelical views in the near future.I haven't listened to Hanegraaff much in recent years, and I haven't read any of his most recent books. I did listen to him a lot and read some of his books in the 1990s and the opening years of the 2000s.I benefited from his work in my first several years as a Christian, and I appreciate much of what he's done. But his promotion of Eastern Orthodoxy is a major problem. CRI needs to do something about it. There needs to be clarification about Hanegraaff's relationship with Eastern Orthodoxy, and his promotion of Orthodoxy on the air and through other CRI resources needs to end. The damage he's already done, in contexts like the ones discussed above, needs to be addressed and counteracted.Anybody who's interested can read a lot of posts we've written about Orthodoxy in our archives. My index of posts on Catholicism and church history has a lot of material that's relevant to Orthodoxy as well. As I document there, Orthodoxy doesn't have the sort of historical roots Hanegraaff suggests it does.If Hanegraaff wants to get a better idea of how healthy Orthodoxy is, he should try doing his radio program for a month while relying strictly on Orthodox resources. Address the philosophical, historical, exegetical, moral, and other issues that come up without going to Evangelical sources. See what happens. See how well Orthodoxy has addressed these matters.Keep in mind that Hanegraaff doesn't just influence the listeners of his radio program, the people who read his books, and such. He also influences a lot of scholars and other people who write for the Christian Research Journal or work for CRI in some other manner. His promotion of Orthodoxy encourages other people in such influential positions to become more accepting of it.
====================
1st Grid-Scale Tesla Energy Storage System In Europe Officially Opened

December 8th, 2016 by James Ayre

Europe’s first grid-scale Tesla Powerpack energy storage system installation was recently officially unveiled in Somerset (England), according to recent reports.

The new Tesla Powerpack installation was designed to store the electricity generated at a solar photovoltaic (PV) project located at the site. The energy storage project, which was developed by Camborne Energy Storage, is intended to provide enough electricity to supply for the needs of about 500 regional households if necessary.

The UK’s Energy Minister Baroness Neville Rolfe attended the recent unveiling event and stated:

“We welcome this exciting project from Tesla and Camborne. Innovation in storage technologies will help manage our electricity grid more efficiently, support greater energy security and, crucially, drive down consumer bills.

“Our upcoming industrial strategy will build on this work further, working with businesses to ensure the UK continues to be at the forefront of low-carbon technology, creating the conditions for future success.”

Business Green provides more: “The industry has been calling on the government to provide a clearer policy landscape for energy storage projects and take steps to accelerate investment in the sector. However, Business and Energy Secretary Greg Clark delivered a boost for the fledgling industry last month, delivering a speech in which he argued energy storage and smart grid technologies would play a critical role in the UK’s energy system in the future and launching a call for evidence on how smart systems should be developed.”

The managing director at developer Camborne Energy Storage, Dan Taylor, commented at the recent unveiling as well: “Camborne is pleased to have developed Europe’s first Tesla grid scale installation by co-locating with a solar farm in Somerset, England. This project is already commercially operational providing low carbon power during times of high demand. Our first co-located site is an early step in the right direction, both for Camborne and for the industry and we look forward to continuing to deliver further low carbon power to the UK.”

As a close to this article, it’s worth noting here that Tesla’s Powerpack (and Powerwall) prices have dropped dramatically since the energy storage systems first hit the market, while energy density has doubled.

Photo by Camborne Energy














====================
The underwater crew from SpongeBob(TM) SquarePants will soon surface at the more than 8,300 participating Burger King® restaurants nationwide. Beginning June 11th, Big Kids Meal and Kids Meal customers can enjoy one of seven SpongeBob(TM) toys designed to be used both on land and in the water, an innovative feature that sets these premiums apart. The four-week promotion offers kids the chance to bring a part of the fictional undersea city of Bikini Bottom home with them.

"SpongeBob(TM) SquarePants is one of the funniest, most irreverent shows on television today,'' said Richard Taylor, vice president of USA marketing for Burger King Corporation. "This show has a broad viewing audience from kids to teens to college kids, all of whom enjoy the Burger King® experience. For all these reasons, it's a perfect fit with our brand.''

Two different premiums will be introduced weekly throughout the promotion, while supplies last. Because the toys have a dual play function enjoyed by both "land-lubbers'' and "seafarers,'' kids have twice the reason to collect them. "SpongeBob's(TM) Kelp Plunge,'' complete with a color-changing SpongeBob(TM) character who flip-flops down the kelp high-dive, is the tallest single premium ever offered by a quick service restaurant. At 18" tall, this toy stands one-inch higher than the connectable Rugrats(TM) treehouse offered at Burger King® restaurants in January 2001.

SpongeBob(TM) SquarePants is the 2nd highest rated show on all of Kids TV! SpongeBob consistently outperforms all broadcast and cable programs head-to- head on Saturday mornings. Dwelling a few fathoms beneath the tropical isle of Bikini Atoll in the sub-surface city of Bikini Bottom, SpongeBob lives in a two-story pineapple. Instead of taking the logical approach to challenges, SpongeBob looks at life in an unconventional way. Whether searching for the ultimate spatula to perfect his burger flipping technique at the Krusty Krab, or just hanging out with his best friend Patrick (an amiable starfish), SpongeBob's good intentions and overzealous nature usually create chaos in his underwater world.

"Their below sea-level antics are flooding the airwaves with laughter on Saturday mornings,'' Taylor noted.

The SpongeBob(TM) SquarePants promotion will be supported with in- restaurant merchandising, the first kids merchandising created by Draft Worldwide Chicago, Burger King Corporation's promotion agency of record, as well as web-based marketing and national kid-directed television advertising. The :30 second spot, "Bubble Art,'' was created by Campbell Mithun, the kids advertising agency of record.

Nickelodeon, now in its 22nd year, has built a diverse, global business by putting kids first in everything it does. The company includes television programming and production in the U.S. and around the world, plus consumer products, online, recreation, publishing and feature films. Nickelodeon can be accessed at Nick.com. Nickelodeon and all related titles, characters and logos are trademarks of Viacom, Inc.
====================
As it happened: Azaria Chamberlain inquest

Updated

A fourth coronial inquest into the disappearance of Azaria Chamberlain has ruled that a dingo was responsible for her death in 1980.

Coroner Elizabeth Morris brought the 32-year saga to a close with a heartfelt apology to Azaria's parents for the loss of their "special and loved daughter and sister". Our live blog has the details of this important day in Australian legal history:

1:10pm: We'll sign off with a final wrap-up of this morning's ruling from Tony Eastley in Darwin.

Sorry, this video has expired Video: Tony Eastley reports live for the Midday Report (The Midday Report)

1:03pm: A blast from the past as we wind up today's live coverage: The Wikimedia site has some interesting ABC coverage of Lindy Chamberlain's release from jail in 1986 (via @stepharrington).

12:42pm: Now you can have a look back at the dramatic case through the eyes of a close onlooker: court artist Veronica O'Leary. Ms O'Leary has spoken to ABC Open about her point of view during Australia's most notorious murder trial.

12:39pm: The ABC now has video online of Azaria's parents addressing the media outside court:

12:12pm: Just one day after what would have been her 32nd birthday, the battle for the truth about Azaria Chamberlain's death comes to a close.

Her new death certificate has been issued and is in the hands of her parents:

12pm: Tony Eastley is providing a summary of today's events live on the Midday Report.

11:56am: We now have video of the coroner Elizabeth Morris handing down her findings:

11:50am: Here are Azaria's parents speaking to the media earlier:

11:48am: The new death certificate for Azaria Chamberlain, putting to rest this 32-year saga, is being presented to the media by her parents outside the Darwin Magistrates Court.

11:40am: The ABC's Tony Eastley, speaking to ABC News 24, says the lesson from the Chamberlain case is - as Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton said after the hearing - Australians must recognise that dingos can be dangerous, even deadly, to humans.

11:35am: Azaria's parents are now picking up the new death certificate.

11:29am: Mr Chamberlain thanks the coroner, the family's supporters and the media for the recent reporting of the case.

This has been a terrifying battle. Bitter at times. But now some healing and a chance to put our daughter's spirit to rest.

11:27am: Michael Chamberlain is now speaking to the media and the crowd outside the court:

Today, I heard Coroner Morris speak for the dead on behalf of the living. This battle to get to the legal truth about what caused Azaria's death has taken too long. However, I am here to tell you that you can get justice, even when you think that all is lost. But, truth must be on your side. I cannot emphasise strongly enough how sacred human life is and must be protected at all costs. And I cannot express strongly enough how important it is to pursue a just cause even when it seems to be a mission impossible. If you know you are right, never give up on getting it right, when the serious issue could affect the life and livelihood of others.

"The truth is out," Mr Chamberlain added, saying that the family welcomed "a chance to put our daughter's spirit to rest."

11:25am: Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton says the family are relieved and delighted to come to the end of this saga.

No longer will Australia be able to say that dingos are not dangerous and only attack if provoked. We live in a beautiful country but it is dangerous and we would ask all Australians to be aware of this and take appropriate precautions and not wait for somebody else to do it for them.

11:23am: Azaria's parents Michael and Lindy and Azaria's brother Aidan are leaving the courthouse now. They are addressing the media - watch live.

11:16am: Here are the coroner's words on the events of August 17 1980:

In considering now all of the evidence, I am satisfied that the evidence is sufficiently adequate, clear, cogent and exact - and that the evidence excludes all other reasonable possibilities - to find that what occurred on the 17th of August 1980 was that shortly after Mrs Chamberlain placed Azaria in the tent - a dingo or dingoes entered the tent, took Azaria, and carried and dragged her from the immediate area. Mrs Chamberlain, upon being alerted to Azaria's cry, returned to the tent area to see a dingo near the tent. Raising a cry which alerted others, Mrs Chamberlain then ran for a short distance after the dingo, back to the tent, confirming that Azaria was missing. Azaria was not seen again.

11:14am: ABC News 24's Joe O'Brien is speaking to Evil Angels author John Bryson about the background to this traumatic story, and the lessons that have been learned.

11:06am: The findings of the fourth inquest are available online:

11:03am: The ABC's Tony Eastley, who first covered the case more than 30 years ago, has tweeted following the handing down of the findings: "Tears, hugs in court. What a difference 30 years makes."

10:59am: The coroner's words to Azaria's parents at the end of the hearing marked an emotional moment:

Please accept my sincere sympathy on the death of your special and loved daughter and sister Azaria. I'm so sorry for your loss. Time does not remove the pain and sadness of the death of a child. Coroner Elizabeth Morris

10:57am: Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton and her husband Rick are the last to leave the courtroom.

10:54am: Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton and Michael Chamberlain embrace as the court rises.

10:52am: An amended death certificate will be available for Azaria's parents immediately. The court is adjourned, thus closing an extraordinary decades-long chapter in Australian legal history.

10:50am: The coroner's voice wavers as she expresses her condolences for the death of the family's "special and loved daughter and sister".

10:49am: Coroner Elizabeth Morris says the cause of Azaria's death was as a result of being taken and attacked by a dingo.

10:46am: The coroner is continuing to hand down her findings on the likely cause of death. She says "misadventure" or "accidental death" do not fully cover death by animal attack.

10:45am: The coroner finds that a dingo or dingoes took Azaria from her tent at Uluru.

10:42am: The coroner acknowledges evidence tended to the current inquest of dingo attacks on people in places such as Fraser Island.

10:40am: The coroner notes that there were dingo attacks on children in the area in the months preceding Azaria's disappearance and that there was a dingo den in the area at the time.

10:37am: Coroner Elizabeth Morris says many aspects of the evidence have been misreported or misrepresented.

10:36am: This is the scene inside the courtroom:

10:32am: The coroner is outlining the circumstances of the 1980 disappearance as have been established, including the growl of a dog before the baby was declared to have been taken. She describes the mother's initial reaction to the disappearance: 'My god, my god, that dog's got my baby'.

10:31am: Coroner Elizabeth Morris has begun handing down her findings.

10:21am: Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton has arrived in the courtroom and taken a seat in the front row in between Michael Chamberlain and her husband Rick Creighton.

10:10am: Reporter Melanie Arnost (@arnostm) is also at the Darwin Magistrates Court and has been tweeting pics this morning, including this one of Michael Chamberlain arriving.

10:06am AEDT: This morning, ABC News Breakfast spoke to two experts on the case: Sydney Morning Herald journalist Malcolm Brown (who expects the coroner to find a dingo responsible for the death), and author of Evil Angels John Bryson.

Sorry, this video has expired Video: Evil Angels author John Bryson on the Chamberlain case (ABC News)

10:05am AEDT: Tony Eastley is speaking live to ABC News 24, awaiting the arrival of Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton. Her ex-husband Michael Chamberlain has just arrived at the courthouse.

9:48am AEDT: Northern Territory coroner Elizabeth Morris has allowed the media to broadcast from the packed courtroom as she hands down her findings from 10:30am AEDT. As well as live coverage on this page and on ABC News 24, you can follow developments on radio.

9:40am AEDT: ABC reporter and presenter Tony Eastley has been covering the Azaria Chamberlain case for three decades, and is in Darwin today for the handing down of the findings. You can follow his tweets on his account @tonyeastley. He was at Darwin Airport yesterday when Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton arrived. She told the media pack that Azaria would have turned 32 yesterday.

8:50am AEST: Azaria Chamberlain was nine weeks old when she disappeared from an Uluru campsite in August 1980. The case gripped the country for years after, and today the family has another chance of official recognition that a dingo was responsible for her death. Here, the ABC's Tony Eastley looks back at the case as the family waits for the coroner's findings to be handed down:

Sorry, this video has expired Video: Coroner to hand down Chamberlain findings (ABC News)

Topics: courts-and-trials, law-crime-and-justice, animal-attacks, darwin-0800, alice-springs-0870, nt, australia

First posted
====================




ANN ARBOR (WWJ/AP) – Prosecutors have withdrawn a man’s guilty plea in the fatal shooting of a University of Michigan medical student.

Washtenaw County prosecutors reinstated all charges against 21-year-old Shaquille Jones of North Charleston, South Carolina. Prosecutors say he will face trial in the 2013 death of Paul DeWolf after he violated the terms of the deal by refusing to cooperate with them, the Ann Arbor News reported. A judge denied Jones’ request to withdraw his plea one week earlier.

Jones would have spent more than 18 years in prison after pleaded guilty in February to second-degree murder, first-degree home invasion and conspiracy to commit home invasion. He could now face mandatory life in prison if convicted of murder.

The judge said Jones has already testified against 21-year-old co-defendant Dajeon Franklin, so those statements could be used against him during his trial.

Jones testified that Franklin, of Pittsfield Township, fired the gun that killed DeWolf last July at an off-campus fraternity house for medical students.

Jones said he and 20-year-old co-defendant Joei Jordan, of Sumter, S.C., were living with Jordan’s grandmother in Ypsilanti, not far from the U-M campus. Franklin is Jordan’s cousin.

According to Jones, the trio traveled to Ann Arbor to break into houses, including the one that contained DeWolf’s apartment, to steal mostly small, valuable items. He said they went into the Phi Ro Sigma house and Jordan took a PlayStation 3, but then they heard someone stirring in the house so they fled out the basement door they entered through.

Jones said the group walked a few blocks away and rehashed a plan to go back to the frat house, located in the 200 block of North Ingalls Street, because Jordan “thought something was in there worth taking.” Before doing that though, Jordan stashed his backpack with the stolen items nearby, Jones said.

When they went back to the Phi Ro Sigma house, Jones said that’s when they encountered DeWolf in a basement bedroom. Jones said the room was very dark and they didn’t know DeWolf was home, until he asked, “Who’s there?” and stood up near his bed.

Jones said he saw DeWolf grabbing for either Franklin or the gun he was holding and after a brief struggle, the gun went off. The trio then fled the scene. DeWolf’s body was found the next morning, in a pool of blood with a single gunshot wound to the neck.

Later on the day DeWolf’s body was found, Jones said he and Jordan returned to the scene of the crime because Jordan wanted to get his backpack with the stolen items. After driving past multiple police cruisers and walking by yellow crime scene tape, Jordan apparently grabbed the stashed bag and left undetected.

Jones said a few days went by before he learned that DeWolf was killed in the shooting.

Police eventually recovered the stolen items and traced them back to Jones and Jordan, who sold them before returning to South Carolina. The trio was taken into custody months later in November.

Jones is due back in court in January.

Jordan was originally scheduled to face trial on Oct. 6, but the judge granted a request to postpone the trial until January to align with Jones’ trial.

Franklin’s trial is set for Oct. 6.

All three men are held in jail without bond.

Click here to catch up on this case.

TM and © Copyright 2014 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2014 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
====================
Sunday marked the 42nd anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. While best known as a leader of the African-American Rights movement in the 1960s, King also fought for the “reconstruction of [American] society,” which he said was being poisoned by poverty, militarism and materialism.

Exactly one year before his death, Reverend King delivered a speech, Beyond Vietnam, in which he denounced the United States’ military involvement in Indochina. He vividly recounted the widespread destruction of land, of institutions, of Vietnamese self-determination and of the Vietnamese themselves.

“They watch as we poison their water, as we kill a million acres of their crops. They must weep as the bulldozers roar through their areas preparing to destroy the precious trees. They wander into the hospitals, with at least twenty casualties from American firepower for one “Vietcong”-inflicted injury. So far we may have killed a million of them — mostly children.”

King connected U.S. efforts in Vietnam with suffering at home, calling the war “the enemy of the poor” because it diverted human beings and their creative capacities away from the construction of society and enlisted them, instead, toward its destruction.

This speech marked the expansion of King’s work beyond support for Civil Rights and beyond opposition to U.S. military operations in Southeast Asia. He addressed what he called the “spiritual” health of American society.

This business of burning human beings with napalm, of filling our nation’s homes with orphans and widows, of injecting poisonous drugs of hate into veins of people normally humane, of sending men home from dark and bloody battlefields physically handicapped and psychologically deranged, cannot be reconciled with wisdom, justice and love. A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death.

These words were matched with action. Most prominently, King helped organize the Poor People’s Campaign, which called for money to be redirected from military use to social use. It demanded the government pass an “economic bill of rights” committed to increasing access to housing, resources and employment.

But in the embryonic stage of the Poor People’s Campaign – officially considered the ‘second phase’ of the Civil Rights Movement – King was assassinated. With its foundation suddenly ripped away, the campaign collapsed.

Forty-two years later, major remembrances of Reverend King typically discuss his Civil Rights work and little else. They fail to place the issue of Civil Rights within the context of his broader critique of American policies, domestic and foreign.

Forty-two years later, that critique is still incisive. As economic inequality and mass unemployment tear at the health of the nation, our government fights two needless wars that rob us of lives, of wealth and of community.

Still, there is now, as there was then, hope for revitalization.

America, the richest and most powerful nation in the world, can well lead the way in this revolution of values. There is nothing, except a tragic death wish, to prevent us from reordering our priorities, so that the pursuit of peace will take precedence over the pursuit of war. There is nothing to keep us from molding a recalcitrant status quo with bruised hands until we have fashioned it into a brotherhood.

Advertisements
====================
A hero legislator in Virginia's House of Delegates sponsored a bill that finally bans the practice of forcibly implanting microchips in humans. Delegate Mark Cole (R-Fredericksburg) is not some mere privacy advocate: he is saving us from the antichrist.

Not since "Jim DeMint's grandchildren build an igloo to prove that Al Gore is stoopid" (earlier today!) has one piece of mid-Atlantic region local news so succinctly explained just how far this nation of idiot children has regressed.

Cole—no theologian, he admits!—believes that microchips that no one has ever proposed forcibly implanting in humans will turn out to be the "Mark of the Beast" spoken of in the Book of Revelations—generally the most important biblical book for your average fundamentalist Christian, as it elides the gay neighbor-loving shit and the "camel through a needle's eye" socialism for Michael Bay special effects and fiery vengeance against the heathens. So today the Virginia House of Delegates banned this nonexistent practice, thus averting (for now!) the End Times.

Please remember, an elected Republican from Virginia said these words:

"I just think you should have the right to control your own body," Cole said.

He may not necessarily believe that this right extends to a woman's uterus, but The Founders certainly meant to protect us from Lucifer's Tiny Computers.

Oddly, at least one legislator thought this whole thing was a waste of time!

Others dismissed the legislation, calling it a sideshow as lawmakers grapple with a huge budget gap. "We've got a $4 billion hole, and we're spending time on microchips," said Del. Albert C. Pollard Jr. (D-Northumberland). "At least when Nero fiddled, they got good music."

And that's how we came to live in a world where you aren't allowed to press charges if you were gangraped while working for a military contractor but they sure as shit weren't allowed to put a DEVIL CHIP IN YOUR NECK LIKE IN THE X-FILES.
====================
Grey and Brady discuss: singing, the psychology of self-checkout machines, laygo, animal emoji changes at Apple, yet more ways to be freebooted, 'nudity' on YouTube, school photos, plane crash corner, and death and immortality.

Videoblocks: Get all the stock images, video, and audio you can imagine for $149. Download anything from thousands of images, videos, and tracks—and unlock discounts on millions more.

Backblaze: Online backup for $5/month - 15 day free trial

Squarespace: start building your website today with a free fourteen day trial and 10% off first purchase

Listeners like YOU on Patreon

Show Notes:

Discuss this episode on the reddit

Apple animal emoji changes

H.I #80: Operation Twinkle Toes

Brady: Animal Locomotion - Objectivity #137

Brady makes art sexually suggestive

Grey's view while editing plane crash corner. Thanks, Brady.

Grey: Why Die?

Live fast, but die old

Kurzgesagt: Why Age? Should We End Aging Forever?
====================
Typing React Components with Flow

I’m going to describe how to use Flow in terms of React & Redux. The reason I did this is that this area is not commonly covered. I couldn’t find any best practices or really cool tutorials for using Flow in React & Redux applications. Let’s fix that!

We live in the strange time when almost all programming languages are moving towards static type systems. There are some rumors that Python and Ruby are going to become a static type. And JavaScript is no exception.

There are some options for making JS type safe: TypeScript, Dart, and Flow. I don’t like Dart because of its non-JS appearance. It looks like Java or something similar, but not JS. And of course, it’s not really popular in the JS community.

Another option is TypeScript. In comparison with Flow, in TypeScript, you have to write all of your projects from the beginning, whereas you can apply Flow gradually. And because TypeScript is NOT JavaScript, it cannot follow the ECMAScript standard, and of course, not all libraries are available for TypeScript.

The final option is Flow. It is really amazing! It covers the entire spectrum of typing tools you need, such as type aliases, type inference, type unions, etc.

This article is not for newbies to Flow, because here I focus on React with Flow practices. If you don’t know the basics of Flow, please read my article “ReactJS. Quick Start”, the official Flow docs and then come back to us.

Advantages of using Flow

The advantages of using Flow as a static type checker are the following:

It looks very clear and natural. People with either Haskell or a Swift, Scala, and Kotlin background will find this checker extremely accessible and nice. It is still JavaScript. We have the same idioms, the same environment, etc. Your code more reliable. It checks your code at compilation time, not runtime, so that you have feedback about how your code will perform before you run it. It offers code documentation. You need only one glance to understand what this function wants to accept and what it returns. It decreases the number of tests. With static type checking, you don’t need to test every function with many conditions and in many contexts to recognize that it doesn’t work like it is supposed to because if it compiles, it probably works. You are recommended to test only high-level APIs such as what a user sees and how a user interacts with your application.

From PropTypes to Props

Currently, react library provides PropTypes for checking the types of props that we pass to a component. That’s cool, but using PropTypes becomes a mess: we have to use the PropTypes namespace and add some strange-looking checkers like PropTypes.oneOf([‘…’]). Also, the main thing is that PropTypes checks your code at runtime, while Flow checks your code before you run it. Check it:

import React, { Component, PropTypes } from ‘react’; class MyComponent extends Component { static propTypes = { label: PropTypes.string, status: PropTypes.oneOf(['error', 'fetching', 'ready']), items : PropTypes.arrayOf(PropsTypes.string), numberOfUsers: PropTypes.number, metainfo: PropTypes.shape({ content: PropTypes.string, userAvatar: PropTypes.string, }), } // cooooode }

Using Flow, we can clean it up and add more semantics via type aliases and union types. For instance, the status property has a countless number of discrete values, so it’d be better to transform it:

type Status = ‘error’ | ‘fetching’ | ‘ready’;

And now, instead of

status: PropTypes.oneOf(['error', 'fetching', 'ready']),

We can use

status: Status,

We should do the same thing with metainfo too. For this task, we need to type alias the shape of a Metainfo object.

type Metainfo = { content: string, userAvatar: string, };

Let’s combine our semantics improvements and Flow syntax in our component. We’d get something like this:

type Status = ‘error’ | ‘fetching’ | ‘ready’; type Metainfo = { content: string, userAvatar: string, }; class MyComponent extends Component { props: { label: string, status: Status, items: Array<string>, numberOfUsers: number, metainfo: Metainfo, } // cooooode }

Pretty concise and clear. One glance and you see what happens.

Pure Components

I hope you know what this is. If not, a small explanation: a pure component is a component without a state or methods inside itself; it is just a pure function that accepts props and returns JSX. Briefly, I like to use this feature with UI things such as buttons, inputs, etc.

The only problem that destroys all the beauty of pure components is PropTypes. We have to make something like this:

MyPureComponent.propTypes = { … }

…or go back to the class declaration. Well, let’s move to Flow. It gives us the ability to create pure components without PropTypes and keep the type safe. I’m gonna show you a comparison example for better understanding. Take a look at this:

import React, { Component, PropTypes } from ‘react’; class Section extends Component { static propTypes = { title: PropTypes.string, content: PropTypes.string, link: PropTypes.string, } render = () => ( <div> <title>{this.props.title}</title> <p>{this.props.content}</p> <div>{this.props.link}</div> </div> ) }

Let’s transform it into a pure component using function syntax and Flow:

import React, { Component, PropTypes } from ‘react’; type SectionProps = { title: string, content: string, link: string }; const Section = ({ title, content, link }: SectionProps) => ( <div> <title>{title}</title> <p>{content}</p> <div>{link}</div> </div> ) ;

Awesome! In my opinion, this looks simple and clear.

Redux (Action Creators, Thunk Action Creators, Reducer)

Action creators are just pure functions that accept something and return an object. To increase safety, we can use types. But this is not the only reason to use Flow; we can add the semantics to it. For instance:

export const fetchedUserProfile = user => ({ type: ‘fetchedUserProfile’, payload: { user, }, });

Using Flow, we can make our type for the user to check that the user object has the properties we expect. Also, we can do the same for action so that it’ll enforce the convention about what action should look like:

type User = { id: number, name: string, email: string };

And for actions:

type ActionType = ‘error’ | ‘fetchUserProfile’ | ‘fetchedUserProfile’; type Action = { type: ActionType, payload: Object };

With our new types, the transformation of the fetchedUserProfile function will be the following:

export const fetchedUserProfile = (user: User): Action => ({ … });

Just one glance and you’ll know how to use it. Documentability! 🙂

Reducer is just a function too, so we can add some magic (not) to it via types. A plain reducer:

const defaultState = { status: ‘’, userProfile: {}, items: [], }; const reducer = (state = defaultState, action) => { switch(action.type) { case ‘’: {} default: return state; } };

Add types:

type User = { id: number, name: string, email: string }; type Items = { id: number, content: string, check: boolean }; type ActionType = ‘error’ | ‘fetchUserProfile’ | ‘fetchedUserProfile’; type Action = { type: ActionType, payload: Object }; type State = { status: ‘error’ | ‘loading’ | ‘ready’, userProfile: User, items: Array<Items>, };

And our reducer becomes cool and clear:

const defaultState: State = { status: ‘’, userProfile: {}, items: [], }; const reducer = (state: State = defaultState, action: Action): State => { switch(action.type) { case ‘’: {} default: return state; } };

Meow :3

We’re moving further toward more advanced types of action creators—thunk action creators. Here we can also use types, but it’s more developed than previous cases.

const fetchUserProfile = (userId) => (dispatch) => User .load(userId) .then(response => dispatch(fetchedUserProfile(response.user))) .catch(() => dispatch(fetchingError()));

Are you ready for types? Of course, you are!

type ActionType = ‘error’ | ‘fetchUserProfile’ | ‘fetchedUserProfile’; type Action = { type: ActionType, payload: Object }; type Dispatch = (action: Action) => void; const fetchUserProfile = (userId: number) => (dispatch: Dispatch): void => User .load(userId) .then(response => dispatch(fetchedUserProfile(response.user))) .catch(() => dispatch(fetchingError()));

I’d recommend you look at some examples of using types with async functions in the official docs. There you’ll find awesome instances of using Flow with asyncs.

Don’t Use Object

In this section, I’d like to go on a tangent and talk about generics. It’s useful to raise a level of abstraction and make boxes around the things with different types.

Do you remember our Action type? No? Me either 🙂 JK

type Action = { type: ActionType, payload: Object };

It isn’t type safe in light of the payload property’s type because we can place every object with whatever signature. The only one that works—unpredictable. How can we solve this problem in terms of Flow? Use disjoint unions. Look at this:

type Action = { type: ‘create’, payload: { name: string } } | { type: ‘delete’, payload: { id: number } } | { type: ‘update’, payload: { id: number, name: string} };

Type library

Move your types to a separate module (js file) so that they can be used in other modules and be the same throughout the entire app. You just need something like this:

// types.js export type User = { name: string, email: string, id: number | string };

And just import it to another js file.

// actions.js import type { User } from ‘./types.js’;

Add more semantics

Instead of using types only for checking the reliability of your apps, you should use it to add an explanation of what it is via the type name. Check the following example:

type Password = string;

I think it is more understandable for further use now.

Summary

Use type aliases and union types to add more semantics. Use pure components. Use types for class components. Use types for action creators.

But enough is enough. Don’t type alias everything, and don’t recreate the wheel.

Well, thank you for coming! Love React, use types, and be happy.
====================
A disgruntled red-winged blackbird has taken up a roost at Maison Radio-Canada in Montreal, and it is not being very neighbourly.

In fact, the bird has dive-bombed anyone and anything in sight since establishing its nest somewhere on the property.

It's gotten to the point that SNC-Lavalin, the managers of the building, have had to put out a sign warning pedestrians to keep an eye on the bird or risk being threatened.

"It's not a permanent solution, but we've put out a sign and had someone out there telling people to be careful," said Jean-Michel Champagne, environmental specialist for SNC-Lavalin.

Champagne said it all started sometime last week when a baby bird belonging to the red-winged blackbird couple fell out of its nest somewhere near the entrance. The male of the couple, which can easily be spotted with the bold red and yellow patch on its wing, went into a frenzy and began dive-bombing anyone who approached.

Champagne says the bird sent everyone into a panic, and people had to hurry to get out of range of the bird.

"We've never had people hurt themselves, but this year, an employee was injured running away," said Champagne.

According to Barbara Frei, the director of the McGill Bird Observatory, male red-winged blackbirds take up a territory and will defend it without caution.

Frei is currently doing her postdoctoral research at McGill and the University of Ottawa. She has a particular fondness for the red-winged blackbird. Her first work in the field was to check red-winged blackbird nests.

"It really depends on the individual," said Frei. "I knew when I checked the nest of one particular male, I'd have to wear a bike helmet."

Frei says that red-winged blackbirds are intelligent and like to take up residence in cedar hedges. She said it's not out of the ordinary to hear of a red-winged blackbird being defensive and said the behaviour should settle down after a couple of weeks.
====================
Synopsis: Element Z = 117 Confirmed

Researchers have independently confirmed the existence of element 117 and have discovered a new isotope along the way.

Kwei-Yu Chu/LLNL

Nuclear physicists have invested huge effort in creating superheavy elements, which consist of enough neutrons to provide enhanced stability from nuclear decay. For the past 30 years, experiments have been marching towards this “island of stability” with a new elemental discovery every 2 to 3 years. Part of the discovery process includes the confirmation by an independent experimental collaboration—it is only at this point that an element obtains its official status.

An international team using an intense 48 Ca beam provided by GSI research facility in Darmstadt, Germany, and a target material of radioactive 249 Bk supplied by Oak Ridge National Lab in Tennessee has produced two atoms of the superheavy element with atomic number Z = 117 , confirming the initial observation published in 2010 (see 9 April 2010 Viewpoint). In the process, a new isotope 266 Lr was discovered from the previously unknown alpha-decay branch of 270 Db . With a half-life of 1 hour, 270 Db is the longest-lived alpha emitter having an atomic number, Z , greater than 102 .

The experiment is a tour de force in superheavy element research and required a detailed reconstruction of a seven-step alpha-decay chain followed by the spontaneous fission of the newly discovered 266 Lr . The difficulty stems from the large variation in decay lifetimes along the alpha chain. The discovery was made feasible by the use of TASCA, a gas-filled recoil separator specifically designed for a high selectivity of superheavy or transactinide elements.

The confirmation by the TASCA team serves as a much-needed step on the long road towards the island of stability. An easier feat will be deciding on a name for Z = 117 . – Kevin Dusling
====================
Andre Lampitt said Ed Miliband 'not a real Brit', 'most Nigerians are bad people' and Islam is an 'evil organisation'

The UK Independence party has suspended one of five supporters chosen to appear on its first European election broadcast after it emerged he had posted a series of racist and Islamophobic tweets that said Ed Miliband was "a Pole" and called for Africans to be left alone to kill themselves.

The election broadcast featured builder Andre Lampitt criticising eastern European immigration. He said: "Since the lads from eastern Europe are prepared to work for a lot less than anybody else, I've found it a real struggle."

In common with the other Ukip supporters featured on the broadcast, Lampitt is not named.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, admitted a serious mistake, saying: "Something's gone wrong with our systems, this guy should have been weeded out."

Lampitt will be edited out of any future showings of the broadcast, and pending his suspension he is expected to be disowned if he continues to try to stand as a Ukip candidate in Merton, south London, in the London council elections next month. Nominations have closed, but there is a 48-hour period in which he can be asked to stand aside.

A Ukip spokesman said: "We are deeply shocked that Mr Lampitt has expressed such repellent views. His membership of the party has been suspended immediately pending a full disciplinary process."

Lampitt's potentially unlawful tweets have been posted in the past few months. He describes Islam as a Satanic religion and claims Nigerians are bad people.

Farage has repeatedly said that he cannot control all the views of his party membership and insisted his posters are not designed to encourage racism.

But Lampitt was handpicked by Ukip headquarters to represent the views of working-class people in the UK, and it appears no checks were made to examine his wider opinions.

Lampitt describes himself as "born British in Rhodesia". In one tweet he claims that Islam is not a religion and calls it an "evil organisation". Another says: "Get over it, slavery was an act of war. you lost, stop being so damn jealous and move forward."

He also said he wants to start a website called Islamoutofuk.co.uk. He tweeted: "Most Nigerians are generally bad people I grew up in Africa and dare anyone to prove me wrong."

Condemning the Labour leader, he said: "Miliband is not a real Brit. I hope he never gets to be PM! He was only born here."

He also claimed statistics on rape would reveal a racial bias in the perpetrators, and another tweet stated: "All Muslims needs to leave Europe America and Oz,or denounce their pathetic Satanic religion."

Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat president, said he was aghast at the tweets. "I cannot believe that Ukip did not check the comments of this man before they used him in their broadcast. His staggeringly racist views might even make the BNP wince with embarrassment.

"Just a week after the French National Front opened their arms to Ukip, with comments like these it's easy to see why they did. Ukip might wrap themselves in the flag, but these comments are deeply offensive to anyone with decent British values."

The tweets were taken down on Thursday afternoon, but screen shots are in circulation on the internet.

Other tweets say "people who live off benefits for over a year should be excluded from society they're just lazy. Survival of the fittest not fat".

On another occasion Lampitt asked in a tweet: "What have Muslims brought to the table of development? Car? Phone? Computer? TV? Train? Aeroplane? Please enlighten me."

The suspension will raise fresh questions about Ukip's vetting process. It is very hard for any political party to prevent the odd extremist standing as a councillor, but it seems a strategic failure not to check out the backgrounds of people appearing in what had been a highly professional election broadcast.

Officials from political parties normally make it a basic requirement that they do rigorous checks on people who appear in their broadcasts.The timing is also unfortunate for Ukip, since it believed it had fended off claims that its £1.5m poster campaign was racist. Farage is in a swing through northern cities in a bid to capture the Labour vote, and will not welcome this distraction in the opening days of a campaign in which he is hoping to cause a political earthquake by coming first in the popular vote in the European elections.

Lampitt's tweets

@NaraHodge I believe being British it is earned through generations of existence not through birth – just my opinion though

@Conservatives well Ed Miliband is Polish and not British so how'd he know what's good for Britain?

@FiratGunay @NHSMuddle oh for Gods sake get over it, slavery was an act of war. you lost stop being so damn jealous and move forward

@DowHeater @mardyarse1 @SkepTorr @TellMamaUK I want to start a website islamoutofuk.co.uk :)

@Veeroni3 @trexmama I was born and grew up in Africa please please leave Africa for Africans let them kill themselves off don't go there

@misscameron7 @Ironwand that's Britain. Enoch Powell was right!
====================
Gonda, Uttar Pradesh: One night as Rajpal Singh slept at his usual place in the house near the front door, he was awakened by a sudden bellowing of a bull. Rising from his cot, he found a bull standing close to the door, preparing to attack his cows which were tied nearby. Rajpal picked up a small stick and waved it in an attempt to hush away the animal. But instead of turning away, the bull charged at him. In a split second, the bull flung him five feet away and turned his cot upside down.

Hearing Rajpal’s cries, people from the neighbourhood woke up and came to his rescue. The bull was driven away but Rajpal suffered severe wounds, including a fractured hip bone, and has been bed-ridden for over a month now. Being an old man, chances of recovery are meek for him. He has already spent Rs 40,000 on medical treatment which is quite a hefty amount for a man of his means.

The incident took place at Baisan Poorva village of Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh. It has become a subject of speculation in the neighbourhood. But it is not a singular incident. During the past few months, around 250-300 animals have been let free in the neighbouring villages. The stray animals destroy the crop of nearly all the fields besides attacking humans.

BJP’s cow protection drive harming villagers

Ever since the UP government imposed a ban on illegal slaughterhouses and the Centre passed a bill regulating cow trade, the sale and purchase of cattle has completely stopped in the region. The traditional cattle fair is no longer being held. In the absence of a market, farmers are forced to free the animals which are of no use to them.

Shivendra Pratap had sown urad in four bighas of land but half the crop has been destroyed by stray cattle. “Dozens of people in the village have let their cattle free. Almost everyone’s fields in the village have been completely or nearly destroyed. No one knows how to deal with it,” Pratap said.

“The animals have wreaked havoc in the area, especially the bull that charged at me – no one had the courage to tackle it,” Rajpal recalled. “It nearly killed me. It was a miracle I didn’t die. For a month and a half, the plaster remained and I couldn’t leave the bed. Life has become hell.”

Another villager, Shivsevak Singh, who works as an assistant in the local primary school, said, “So far, I have lost 14 bighas of crop. No field has been spared in the northern Siwan village. Those who have calves or cows that don’t give milk any more or other such useless animals, they set them free and don’t pay heed even when pressurised to restrain their animals.”

Besides running a riot in the fields, the feral animals are also interrupting the daily life. “When I reach the school in the morning, a herd of at least 50 animals packs the verandah. The students have to first gather and clean the dung before the classes can begin,” Shivsevak said.

Crops being destroyed by stray cattle

Savitri, who cooks meals at the school, said that she had sown corn on one-and-a-half bigha leased land. Despite staying awake the whole night to keep a vigil, the crop was eaten away by the cattle thrice in the same season. Many of her relatives have suffered similar losses. Even setting up boundaries of bamboo and sticks is of little help.

In the neighbouring Gada Purwa village of Paraspur block, Ram Bihari Pathak was attacked by a feral bull. Leaving his oxen in the field, he rushed home and returned with a spear. The bull was still in the field but his oxen had broken free and fled. Pathak stabbed the bull in the neck with the spear but the bull kept advancing towards him. Due to the force from both sides the spear broke in half and Pathak kept hitting the bull and dodging it. By then, some people had gathered around them and the bull was finally driven away. “I am only alive by god’s grace,” he said.

He demanded to know why a law banning the sale and purchase of cattle was passed. Who would keep the animals that are no longer of any use? Earlier they were slaughtered and the fields were spared, he said, but now the practice of gau raksha has only left the crops vulnerable to stray cattle.

The region is abuzz with discussions on the menace of stray cattle wreaking havoc upon the crops. The feral bull that has attacked various people is not like the other bulls that squat on the road and chew on cud. It doesn’t leave the passersby in peace and chases everyone that comes near it.

Despite the menace, people are afraid of being charged with cow slaughter if they attempt to kill it. According to a centuries-old tradition, anybody found slaughtering a cow in the region is sentenced to spend a month in a solitary hut outside the village, cook his own food and cut all ties with society. After a month, he must listen to ‘Bhagwat Katha’, perform Godaan and hold a feast in order to be accepted back.

‘What good is gau raksha if it brings destruction to farmers?’

Rambihari is a Hindu preacher and goes around singing bhajans and hymns on a harmonium. He is a devout Hindu but the government’s legislation has irked him. He says, “Gau rakish has turned cattle into enemies of farmers. Does it even protect the cattle? It’s nothing but a farce and causes devastation of farmers. All fields in the village have been destroyed.”

“Earlier, waking up in the morning meant doing our own chores. But now we have to first grab a spear and head to the field. The watch continues till eight and even then one missed glance means an entire herd of stray cattle will pillage the crop,” he said.

Until now, the menace of stray cattle was confined to the cities. How did the problem surface in villages? According to Rambihari, “Farmers use tractors now, so they don’t need bulls. There are only a couple of bulls in the village. People used to sell useless animals but ever since the government closed down slaughterhouses, there is no one to buy them. The cattle market is no longer functional. Why would any one keep those animals?”

Cursing the government’s cow protection movement, he said, “Whoever wants to eat it, let them eat. If we don’t eat it, nobody forces us to. At least there were no stray animals and the fields were safe then. What good is gau raksha if it brings destruction to the farmers?”

Retired postman of the village, Rasbihari Panday, has a similar tale to tell. “The stray cattle has destroyed everything,” he said. “For three hours I have been strolling through the fields. It gets tiring now. I had sown maize. The crop should have been three to four feet tall by now. But the animals have grazed it all down.”

The closing down of slaughterhouses has had a dreadful impact here. “The government exports the meat any way. If the same can feed a few, what’s the harm in it?” Panday said.

Amit Pathak, a Gada Purwa resident, said, “When locals went to complain about it to the district magistrate, he told us that we were farmers and the animals were our property. He suggested that each of us take in one animal and expressed his inability to offer any other solution. We even demanded bigger grazing fields and caretakers but our demands were not met.”

“I had to set up razor wire fencing around the sugarcane crop sown in the field. Everyone is doing it but it costs a lot. The animals have become a problem,” Pathak said.

Taking a jibe at the administration, he added, “Yogi [Adityanath] is a great animal lover. When we protested, he started expressing more love by feeding stray animals. But one can only feed a couple, not thousands of them. Ragarganj market is seven kilometres away and on way to it you will come across more than 500 animals on the road itself. In Khamroni, there are 400 stray animals strolling across the road. How can you expect fields to be safe in their presence? And who is going to pay for our losses?”

In the neighbouring village of Chitauni, an ageing Shivmohan Singh has leased his land. He had sown three bighas of rice but it was all devastated. “Guarding the crop is difficult when the animals are so many. Many of them have turned ferocious and it is even more difficult to tackle them. I hadn’t sown much but all was lost,” he said.

There used to be a shelter for unclaimed animals in the area and people used to bring stray cattle and tie them here. But it was closed down a few years ago.

Janki Sharan Dwivedi, Gonda-based senior journalist, said, “The most prominent cause of the problem is that bulls and calves have become useless in agriculture. Earlier, every household owned a pair and they were used in tilling of fields, rotation of crops or drawing bullock carts. They are not required any more. And so the markets have also closed down.”

Panday has a similar explanation. According to him, tractors have replaced cattle and no one wants calves any more. Even cows are less in demand.

The biggest problem, according to Amit, are the Jersey cows and their hybrid calves. As they get old, they become useless because they can neither be used in tillage nor for any other agricultural task.

Some people have installed fences around the fields, but the animals get in nevertheless. Sometimes they get injured from the razor wires. “One day the villagers trapped a ferocious bull in razor wire,” Rajpal said. “It was severely wounded. If there is a maggot infestation, it will die.”

Clearly, people want these animals dead but no one is willing to do the killing. So instead they put up razor wire fencing to wound the animals and hope they die of those injuries. “As per the Hindu custom, no one wants to kill a cow. But when they become a menace, what else can be done?” Dwivedi asked.

Radhe Shyam Tiwari, a Salpur village resident, said, “The stray cattle have disturbed the whole region. Large herds descend on the fields out of nowhere and wipe the whole crop. I had set up fencing on two sides, but they entered from the third side and destroyed all of the maize crop and half of rice. We don’t know what to do.”

“Ever since razor wire fencing was installed, several animals have been killed,” one villager said. “This is the only way to get rid of the menace. Some of us plan to jointly set up fencing around a larger area covering several fields.”

The problem has compounded because of the ban on cow slaughter. “So far, people were only releasing calves, but with the ban in place, they are letting the cows go too. They keep them as long as they give milk,” Dwivedi said.

“Farmers are suffering huge losses because of it. They can neither kill the animals, nor send them off to Kanji houses, or gaushalas. If it continues for another couple of years, the problem will go beyond control.”

The villagers have not found a feasible solution yet. According Dwivedi, “The situation has become worse. Only the government can make a policy now to rid the farmers of these animals. No one is ready to buy them as of today. In the current regime, the ruling party workers are so fierce that if someone buys the cattle and transports it, they beat him up mercilessly. Who would dare to buy the useless cattle in such a scenario? If the administration does not wake up, the problem is only going to escalate.”

This article was originally published in The Wire Hindi and has been translated by Naushin Rehman.
====================
Sometimes it seems like warm weather is a rarity in Pittsburgh. So when summertime finally arrives, the last thing anyone wants to do is go indoors.

Of course, nobody is saying you have to. From sunup to sundown there’s plenty happening outside. Start your day off strong with an outdoor yoga class. Follow that up by “rehydrating” at one of the best rooftop bars or outdoor drinking spots around the city. And when the sun goes down, keep the out of doors party going by catching a movie under the stars.

June 7 – Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them

June 14 – Ghostbusters (2016)

June 21 – Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles – Out of the Shadows (2016)

June 28 – Airlift

July 5 – Captain America – Civil War

July 12 – Rogue One

July 19 – Dr. Strange

July 26 – The Good Lie

August 2 – Arrival

August 9 – Almost Christmas

August 16 – The Great Wall

August 23 – On a Wing and a Prayer

August 30 – Jason Bourne

June 9 – The Secret Life of Pets

June 16 – Sing

June 23 – Lego Batman

June 30 – Jungle Book

July 7 – Pete’s Dragon

July 14 – Alice Through the Looking Glass

July 21 – Finding Dory

July 28 – Nine Lives

August 4 – A Dog’s Purpose

August 11 – Queen of Katwe

August 18 – Moana

August 25 – Beauty and the Beast

June 5 – The Secret Life of Pets

July 17 – Finding Dory

August 21 – Beauty and the Beast (2017)

June 10 – The Secret Life of Pets

June 17 – Sing

June 24 – Lego Batman

July 1 – Jungle Book (2016)

July 8 – Pete’s Dragon (2016)

July 15 – Alice Through the Looking Glass

July 22 – Finding Dory

July 29 – Nine Lives

August 5 – A Dog’s Purpose

August 12 – Queen of Katwe

August 19 – Moana

August 26 – Beauty and the Beast (2017)

June 8 – The Secret Life of Pets

June 15 – Sing

June 22 – Lego Batman

June 29 – Jungle Book (2016)

July 6 – Pete’s Dragon (2016)

July 13 – Alice Through the Looking Glass

July 20 – Finding Dory

July 27 – Nine Lives

August 3 – A Dog’s Purpose

August 10 – Queen of Katwe

August 17 – Moana

August 24 – Beauty and the Beast 2017)

August 31 – BFG (Big Friendly Giant)

June 10 – Fantastic Beast and Where to Find Them

June 17 – Ghostbusters (2016)

June 24 – Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles – Out of the Shadows (2016)

July 1 – Airlift

July 8 – Captain America – Civil War

July 15 – Rogue One

July 22 – Dr. Strange

July 29 – The Good Lie

August 5 – Arrival

August 12 – Almost Christmas

August 19 – The Great Wall

August 26 – On a Wing and a Prayer

June 6 – The Secret Life of Pets

June 13 – Sing

June 20 – Lego Batman

June 27 – Jungle Book (2016)

July 11 – Alice Through the Looking Glass

July 18 – Finding Dory

July 25 – Nine Lives

August 1 – A Dog’s Purpose

August 8 – Queen of Katwe

August 15 – Moana

August 22 – Beauty and the Beast (2017)

August 29 – BFG (Big Friendly Giant)

June 4 – The Secret Life of Pets

June 11 – Sing

June 18 – Lego Batman

June 25 – Jungle Book (2016)

July 2 – Pete’s Dragon (2016)

July 9 – Alice Through the Looking Glass

July 16 – Finding Dory

July 23 – Nine Lives

July 30 – A Dog’s Purpose

August 6 – Queen of Katwe

August 13 – Moana

August 20 – Beauty and the Beast (2017)

August 27 – BFG (Big Friendly Giant)
====================
I first came across Goju Ryu and the DKK style while sat in, the now defunct, Borders in Oxford street. It had been three years since I had torn my achilles tendon and lost my Taekwondo master (a close friend to whom I had often been an Uchi-deshi) to cancer. Three years of recovery. In truth, my body had probably recovered after one year and it was my mind that was still traumatised. The memory of the pain still haunted me as did the words of the physiotherapist, reminding me that “I had been lucky” and that I could recover without surgery, but “be careful!” These things had formed a considerable wall in my consciousness. I was afraid of going back, and with my master having passed it was all the excuses I needed. Then one day I simply decided to end it and face my fear, and so I went looking for the toughest martial art London had to offer. I found it that day in Borders when I read Goran’s first book, on the same subject as this his latest, called Waking Dragons: A Martial Artist Faces His Ultimate Test. It chronicled his account of the 30-man Kumite tests he himself had undergone at the London DKK school under Gavin Mulholland. Reading it I wondered if these Goju people could truly be real?

Only three weeks later I was standing in Gavin Mulholland’s class about to find out. He told me two things I expect he thought I would not like. Firstly, he said that he would not honour my black belt gained in Taekwondo, so I would have to wear the white. I was not surprised; Taekwondo and Karate have a long and acrimonious history and in truth a black belt honestly earned is a stream you’ve already crossed and you lose your concern about belts after that achievement. Secondly, he said, “If you’re still here in 3 weeks then I’ll talk to you”. I thought to myself, “He must have all sorts walk through these doors”. My first lesson was similarly a blunt shock to senses. Paired off with the solidly built Tunde we were instructed to attack each other with chest punches. Tunde thrust his fist at me and I slip-blocked it aside.

Gavin came straight over, “No No,” he said, “Don’t block”.

“Don’t block?” I asked astonished. “But, I’ll get hurt?”

Tunde grinned.

“Yes,” said Gavin flatly.

It was then I knew that I could finally face my fears of re-injury, because If I could get through this lesson without ending up enveloped in terrifying tendon pain then I could do anything in the martial arts. For these Goju people, a pleasant mixture of London professionals; students; ladies and men; and greater number wearing black belts than I had ever seen in a single class, are tough. Very tough. Fighting a Goju Karateka is like fighting against a tank. They spar with no hand to head contact and consequently learn to endure body and leg attacks for far longer than I ever thought possible. All this conditioning means that, while you can potentially defeat a Goju fighter, you won’t ever defeat their spirit and that makes them fearsome in combat.

The ultimate expression of this is in the 2nd Dan grading and the 30-man Kumite. Japanese arts, and particularly those born of Okinawa, often have extreme endurance challenges to obtain high grades or a master’s certificate. I remember reading the story of Yamaoka Tesshu, a famous Japanese sword master and Zen poet, who challenged his pupils to endure a 400-man sword fight, something that must have lasted all day. Also, the famous Yoshinkan “Riot Police” Aikido course requires a final black belt grading of well over thousand throws, which will definitely draw blood where your skin rubs off into your dogi. But of all the arts, it is the Karate styles of Kyokushinkai and Goju that have earned the modern reputation for a huge physical challenge at, or around, 2nd Dan.

The 30-man challenge is not to be sniffed at. A line of fighters, stretching around the dojo and in grade order, await you as you step up. Each bout lasts 1 minute before your opponent swaps out for the next fighter. Stop and consider that for a moment: each new opponent is fresh and ready to erupt into effort, whereas you are becoming increasingly drained. The sheer relentlessness of the line, getting harder and more difficult until eventually you are battling high-grades and instructors, staggers the mind. Imagine the dark clouds that could envelop your thoughts, sap your spirit, invade your technique and bring despair. Imagine how at the end of the bout you are exhausted and can no longer raise your arms in defence, how only your spirit is left to you, bare and alone, drawn out of your body and presented naked for everyone to see.

Now imagine that it’s full contact. Get knocked out, broken or winded beyond endurance and it is over.

I have had the honour of witnessing four of these events. Each aspirant looked focused and ready when they waited in the middle of the mat. Each stood tall and silent. On their faces I could see no trace of intention at all, each the visage of someone in the Zen mind. Once it began, the crowd shouted encouragement and the walls rang with their voices mixed with the loud cries from the action on the mat. As each bout went on, and the fighter’s true-self emerged, the crowd’s increasing volume threatened to raise the roof right off. The realisation of what they were here to witness forced tears to well up in their eyes and they bayed and screamed for the fighter to continue, to get up, to hold on, to keep going. It’s brutal and yet genuinely moving, like you’re present at a birth, like something is being born anew here today, some mighty alloy hammered on the anvil and found true with sparks shooting off in all directions. The emotions crescendo in the later bouts, where the aspirants face their own instructors in a final quenching of the newly forged blade. And then it is over and silence descends bar the sound of the aspirant gasping for breath. Gis are straightened, belts are re-tied and bows are made. Then friends rush forward to help the fighter leave the mat. On this day a person was remade from clay into steel and tested against the dragon’s tail. They are now a sword-blade proven to cut true. Earned the 2nd Dan of Goju is, earned in truth.

How on earth do you prepare for such a challenge?

Goran has trained many fighters through their 2nd Dans and in this book he recounts his experience with a few and the training regime he has devised to prepare them for the field and their best chance of success.

Goran starts the work by setting out the challenge and asking, “what are the qualities of a karateka that can pass such a test?” In other words, “What does he look for?” As much as these chapters are for those attempting a 30-man they are also for those looking to coach for one. Indeed, the entire experience is from the POV of the instructor, including all the fears and worries he felt in building the “complete fighter”, which is a core concept in DKK. Peppered amongst straight advice are some personal chapters. For example, his experiences training his partner for the test and what worked as an instructor looking to do that most difficult of tasks: coach a loved one. It is a not an uncommon sight to see an instructor with a family member as a pupil, of course, it’s just unusual to see one at black belt. It’s a pattern I’ve seen all over my martial life, where daughters and sons never progress through to a dan grade. Mainly, I think, because black belt represents a mental step, a doorway, through which something in that relationship changes.

These parts draw to a close with concepts that take advantage of the rules of the test. For example, it is required make an announcement to the rest of the class way in advance of the day. This grants an ability to plan ahead, “walking the foothills” before the mountain, to prepare yourself and that this acclimatisation is a valuable key to success.

After presenting the hierarchy of training methods, Kumite being at the top; it being what you are to do in the event, and solo training; always dangerous in terms of leaving the path without noticing; being at the bottom, we move into the program proper.

As a guide to the 30-man and a tome to enlighten those worried about the process, or those merely interested in the intricacies of Goju in general, or the DKK style in particular, those first chapters eminently succeed in pushing the DKK philosophy to the fore, together with showcasing the classic confidence of the Goju fighter. There is an element of having “walked the walk” present in all Goju things. This confidence has been borne out by success in the MMA arena, and this has also fed into the “Total Fighter” package the style promises.

The program is suitably comprehensive, including sections on the mind, body, and spirit of the fighter. For the mind, we are told that in any fight there is a “hunter”, someone who is not necessarily the aggressor, but he who has perhaps more clarity. For this hunter, Goran uses the twin concepts of Yin and Yang in a new way I had not previously considered. Yin is that part of the fighter focussed on not being hit, the part concerned with positioning to evade after stepping into attack where one may use the last punch in a combination to push away. Yang is the striking part, looking to maximise the reward for accurate and hard strikes. Too many fighters forget the Yin and hence the existence of the “haymaker” punch, and certainly most have paid the price when up against someone in balance.

This straight forward and simple-to-grasp methodology reminded me of the tone found in the classic works of Japanese war such as those of Mushashi or Yagyu Munenori.

From mind comes body and the conditioning drills that will see someone through the gruelling challenge ahead. This section includes the use of bags, bars, and weights as well as cardio and a nod to the great cardio fighters: boxers. This training section was the most similar to my own where I have setup circuits focussed on the actions and requirements of a soldier (fight, run, lift). Another aspect, Goran tells us, to consider is footwork and positioning. I agree wholeheartedly as, in Taekwondo, positioning is the absolute core mechanic that enables the kicks to work smoothly together. One only has to watch the travesty of Olympic Taekwondo to see how bad footwork, drawn from the limitations of the rules, leads to terrible kicks.

After body, we get into the heart of the matter with spirit, for the Goju way is all about spirit; both on and off the field. Spirit is the folding of the steel core that makes you train when you are tired or bored, and “turning up” is the way to improvement. Spirit also enables self-belief, that is the belief that one can do this. It is from knowing one can do something that enables realising that one will do something. So, spirit seems to me to be an ability to live in the doing of things, that is being in the clean and clear mind, and not in the mirrors of intention. In Daoism this is called De, which is the virtue of something in doing. For example, the De of a medicine is the part that actually makes you better by fighting the illness. Knowing how to grasp De is to know the “Zen mind” spoken of by the masters of Buddhism. Bodhidharma, for example, spoke of a mental state of pure clarity without his thoughts intruding. It enabled him to act without “standing in his own way”. There is a reason enlightenment comes through a doing action in Zen: the sudden realisation that nothing was standing in the way of enlightenment but one’s own mind. To me, spirit training in Karate appears to be a method of obtaining this “Zen mind”, if only during combat. This means that one “empty’s out” the mind and then just does. Whether it’s training hard, just getting off the sofa, or fighting for one’s life. Notice that in the word Karate, “Kara”, meaning “air” or “empty” is right next to “Te”, meaning “hand”. There is no gap.

Between empty mind and action there is no gap.

This all ties in perfectly with the samurai-influenced arts such as modern karate, where the great masters talk of “making all decisions within 5 breaths”, or taking “small things seriously and big things lightly”.

With a clear mind, fear is a friend and not an enemy. One can face one’s fears and let them pass over and through, turn one’s middle eye and see the fears depart. What remains is yourself. A mantra I have memorised and repeat often.

For Goran, Zen is always present for he is a Zen practitioner as well as a Karateka. The way of Zen translates perfectly to the way of the warrior and Goran presents some interesting philosophies of Yin and Yang and the way inherent between them. Putting these two into balance enables one to experience the Dao; the whole Universe of which you, reading these words, are a part. You can only experience the Dao whenever you are in harmony with your surroundings. I wonder if it was this I saw on the faces of his fighters lining up for their 30-man?

After summarising the important points of technical and tactical reasoning Goran then moves onto a chapter about strategy by drawing a comparison to the great work of the Chinese general Sun Tzu. By all accounts a man of ironclad practicality, Master Sun’s wisdom and tenets have been used by generations in the setting of strategy in competitive situations. For the single warrior on a field of battle, the philosophy treats striking hands and feet like armies, with intention and movement like feints by thousands of troops. I think it fits the theory very well.

After all this philosophy, we are drawn back to the story of those he has been training to get through the challenge. We see how they did on the day and how their hard work paid – or did not pay – off.

Goran then ends with a moving account of how this training has prepared him to face some tough moments in his own life. Drawing neatly to the fore that Karate, and Zen mind, are not just things we cultivate in the dojo for combat but are in fact things that we become; they are parts of us forever. Goran has proved this with the courage to write of such moments. Courage born of his personality and spirit, things he regularly trains in his art.

The book then covers the stories of those who have tales of their own to tell about their 30-man fights before heading into an appendix detailing the actual plans. As the rest of the book is an excellent account of the thinking behind these plans, it would be a great mistake to skip right to them, but here they are in plain text and one can follow the drills and skills with a knowledge that a lot of thinking has gone into each one. I, for one, will be printing them out and hanging them onto my home gym’s walls.

In the final balance, this is another excellent book from Goran, and it is a pleasure to see him returning to non-fiction, a realm where he is most skilled. The DKK style, Goju, and Karate are eternally fascinating and this book highlights that very well indeed, while still focussing on the core of Goju and how the training handily prepares oneself for the ultimate Karate challenge.

All four of the DKK Goju 30-man tests I watched (3 men, 1 women) were successes. In all four I was moved to near tears.

You can buy this work at Amazon here (as I did):

Regards,

Basho
====================
Controversial Atheist Movie to Premiere at Noah's Ark

Contact: Jen Thompson, Living Waters Publications, 800-437-1893

LOS ANGELES, Sept. 19, 2016 /Standard Newswire/ -- The world premiere of "The Atheist Delusion," which claims to "destroy atheism with one scientific question," will be screened to a private audience while streaming live from within Ken Ham's recently opened Ark Encounter, the massive life-sized Noah's Ark in Northern Kentucky.

Ray Comfort, the movie's producer, said, "From the start, we were concerned that people wouldn't take seriously a movie that 'destroys atheism with one scientific question.' But it does exactly that by scientifically confirming the existence of God. Having a respected, scientifically based organization like Answers in Genesis being willing to premiere it is such an honor."

Thousands have already viewed the movie within the first two days of its pre-release as a paid download, but on October 22, its official release date, it will be streamed live from the Ark.

Comfort said, "This film isn't likely to convince the average proud and closed-minded atheist. But countless others, tempted to believe the ridiculous lie of atheism, are open-minded, and will be convinced by seeing the irrefutable proof for the existence of God."

The best-selling author and filmmaker, whose movies have been viewed by millions, added, "We would love for millions more to watch 'The Atheist Delusion,' and invite Christians to host the live-streaming event from their church or home. The world premiere will be highly evangelistic, as well as thoroughly encouraging, equipping, and inspiring to seasoned believers."

The private event, hosted by Ray Comfort and Ken Ham, will be streamed live on AtheistMovie.com on October 22 at 8 p.m. (ET). At the same time the movie will also be released on YouTube. To view the movie before its official release, see www.AtheistMovie.com for details.

To host a premiere go to: www.atheistmovie.com/host-live-premiere

Interviews with Ray Comfort: JThompson@livingwaters.com
====================
Puabi (commonly labelled Queen Puabi) was an important person in the Sumerian city of Ur, during the First Dynasty of Ur. A gold goblet with a double-walled vessel made for her was found in her tomb. Brazed with an alloy of 25% silver, the gold was called ‘electrum’. Gold brazing was known and skilfully practiced by the Sumerians, the first civilisation in the history of man in the 3rd century BC. The goblet, created for Puabi, was found still filled with green eye paint in the Cemetery of Ur (in modern day Iraq) by Sir Leonard Woolley between 1922 and 1934, and is one of the earliest surviving examples of a brazed joint. The upper portion is double-walled and the brazed joint is made around the periphery. The goblet is currently on display at the British Museum in London.

Other examples of early brazing include drinking vessels with handles attached to the body using a brazing technique originating in Troy around 2200 BC. Brazing was also commonplace in Egypt around this time. Modern brazing has its roots in the work of the early brazers, however, the process has been refined and in many cases automated for mass production of brazed metal items.

Brazing is now a commonplace metallurgy technique used to join two metal parts together by melting and flowing a filler metal into the joint, the filler metal having a lower melting point than the adjoining metal. Where early metallurgists accomplished brazing using a charcoal fire and blowpipe, modern techniques are refined, precise, scaled to industrial levels and can be automated or semi-automated. Torch brazing is the most common form of mechanised brazing, ideally suited for small production runs or specialised operations.

Brazing on a larger scale is undertaken in furnaces. It is an automated or semi-automated process widely used in industrial operations which is especially cost effective. There are many advantages of furnace brazing which include the ease in which it can produce large quantities of small parts that are easily jigged or self-locating, a controlled heat cycle which protects parts which may distort from localised heating, low unit cost, a protective atmosphere in the furnace which is either inert, reducing or vacuum which all protect the part from oxidation and, of course, the ability to braze multiple joints simultaneously.

Vacuum brazing in particular offers significant advantages, giving very clean, superior flux-free braze joints of high integrity and strength. Brazing has developed immensely from the initial blowpipe and charcoal methods used by the ancients into a modern scientifically understood and computer controlled industrial process. It remains one of the mainstays of metal joining used today. more »
====================
An image posted by the Israeli air force shows an Israeli pilot embracing a Greek colleague. The Israeli’s face is obscured in the original.

Greek, along with Italian, military forces are soon to train in Israel.

This is the latest indicator of the deepening military alliance being forged between Israel and Greece’s government led by the leftist Syriza party.

Last month, Israeli helicopter pilots completed an unprecedented 11-day combat training exercise near Greece’s Mount Olympus.

In May, the Syriza-led government also signed a military accord with Israel, matched only by a similar one between Israel and the US, granting legal immunities to each other’s military personnel while training in the other’s territory.

The military deal was signed on behalf of the government by Panagiotis Kammenos, the defense minister from Independent Greeks, Syriza’s rightwing, junior coalition partner. But there is no doubt that Syriza is giving its full backing: in July, the Syriza-nominated Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias traveled to Jerusalem for high-level talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to “strengthen bilateral ties between the two countries.”

Earlier this year Israeli warplanes carried out extensive training missions in Greece, experience that will undoubtedly be used to attack the Gaza Strip in future Israeli military assaults.

Israeli helicopters in Greece

According to an Israeli air force press release, “Israeli-Greek cooperation is gaining momentum over the last years and in light of the success of recent deployments, the mutual flights will probably continue in 2016.”

“We understand the great importance of the joint activity with the State of Israel, which contributes to the security of both countries,” Greece’s Colonel Dormitis Stephzanki, the commander of Larissa Airbase where the Israeli helicopters were based during the exercises, is quoted as saying.

“Over the past few days we have been working together in a special way,” Dormitis added. “The common language, the deep friendship and the things we’ve learnt together have contributed to the enhancement of cooperation between the forces.”

Dormitis said he believes that the training in Greece had improved the Israelis’ “capability to deal with flying wherever needed.”

An image posted by the Israeli air force shows Israeli warplanes at the Larissa Airbase in Greece.

“We flew over mountainous areas that do not exist in Israel and practiced long-distance flights from the airbase in Israel to Greece,” Israel’s Lt. Col. Matan, a commander of a squadron of US-built Apache helicopters said. (Israeli forces only supply first names, likely to protect personnel from potential war crimes charges.)

The Apache – named after Native American peoples targeted by genocidal colonial expansion in North America – has been extensively used by Israel to carry out extrajudicial executions of Palestinians.

It was used during massacres of civilians in Gaza last summer.

Col. Y, a commander of an Israeli reconnaissance unit, described Israel’s participation in the exercise as “historic,” adding that “it was the first time the intelligence-gathering aircraft had worked with foreign aircraft in challenging, unknown terrain.”

Supporting war crimes

According to The Jerusalem Post, Greek helicopter pilots will train in Israel in coming months.

Greek fighter jets “will also arrive as part of the multinational Blue Flag exercise, to be held over southern Israel,” the newspaper reports.

A report in Haaretz in June reveals that Italian, Greek and US air forces will take part in the exercise.

The military cooperation between Israel, Italy and Greece continues despite the fact that a recently published independent inquiry commissioned by the UN Human Rights Council found massive evidence of war crimes by Israel during its attack on Gaza last summer that killed more than 2,200 Palestinians.

Amnesty International last month published its own inquiry into Israel’s attack on the southern Gaza town of Rafah – again concluding that hundreds of civilians were killed as Israel committed grave war crimes.

“Public statements by Israeli army commanders and soldiers after the conflict provide compelling reasons to conclude that some attacks that killed civilians and destroyed homes and property were intentionally carried out and motivated by a desire for revenge – to teach a lesson to, or punish, the population of Rafah,” Amnesty found.

Inam Ouda Ayed bin Hammad, quoted in the Amnesty report, recalled the shelling and bombing that took place near her home in the al-Tannur neighborhood of Rafah: “The minute I left the house, an Apache … started shooting at us.”

Perhaps some of the same Apaches and their pilots were sharing moments of camaraderie in Greece.

The UN report and Amnesty called for accountability for the war crimes committed in Gaza and the occupied West Bank.

Instead, Greece’s and Italy’s ostensibly left-wing governments, and of course the US administration of President Barack Obama, only offer Israel complicity and rewards.
====================
Prince the Therapy Dog

Prince worked as comfort dog at an Indiana high school for four years–right up until his 2013 retirement. As the school’s beloved therapy dog, Prince calmed down stressed out students and offered priceless comfort during times of need. When the student yearbook staff at Portage High School decided to give Prince his own spot in the yearbook, they didn’t expect such a positive school-wide reaction. Yearbook contributors thought the students would at least appreciate Prince’s yearbook presence, that is, if anyone noticed. When the yearbook made its end-of-the-year debut, the entire school was pleasantly shocked. Prince even got to “walk” on graduation day with the 2013 senior class. If you want to see more of Prince, check out his Facebook!

The Role of Comfort Dogs in America

Over the years, comfort dogs have become a crucial component to the aftermath of tragedy. These supportive pups do their admirable work in senior living centers, hospitals and schools. Recently, they’ve taken their compassion a step further.

After the infamous school shooting in Newton, Connecticut, it was comfort dogs that consoled frightened elementary school children. One child refused to even speak to her mother after the shooting. When she interacted with a therapy dog, she finally started talking again. Another child divulged details of the shooting to his canine companion–details, the parents said, he would not even share with family.

The same therapy dogs that arrived in Newton were brought in after the Boston shooting, as well. Look out for these heroic animals as we will surely depend on comfort dogs for empathy time and time again.

Photo Credit: Portage High School Publications

Related

4 Heartwarming Exampled of the Healing Power of Animals (Videos)

Small Dog Heals Sick Kids (Video)

Heros Homecoming for Disfigured Philippines Dog
====================
Columbus Police said a security guard allegedly shot a driver that attempted to strike him his vehicle.

Police responded to reports of a shooting on the 5500 block of Tinley Park, Park Trails Apartments, just before 8:30 Thursday night.

When the officers arrived on scene, they found a man that had crashed his vehicle. Police said he was shot in the upper body before crashing the vehicle.

According to police, the security guard said he shot the driver in self defense. He alleged that the driver attempted to strike him with his vehicle.

The driver, who police have identified as the suspect, was transported to Grant Medical Center in life-threatening condition.

Police had not released his identity, but they did release that he was a 25-year-old man.

The security guard, who police have identified as the victim, had cooperated with police during the investigation. Police said he was a valid weapon holder.

Police added that it appeared the security guard was assisting a woman who was just assaulted by the suspect.

Homicide detectives were still gathering evidence and investigating the scene Friday.

Anyone with information regarding this homicide is asked to contact the Columbus Police Homicide Unit at 614-645-4730 or Central Ohio Crime Stoppers at 614-461-8477.
====================
The CPS said it was satisfied there was no case for Baltic to answer An art gallery will not face any legal action over claims it displayed an indecent statue of Jesus Christ. The artwork was part of an exhibition at Gateshead's Baltic Centre featuring several plaster figures with erections. A private prosecution was being brought by Christian group member Emily Mapfuwa, 40, of Essex, on the grounds the statue outraged public decency. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) stopped the action on Monday and said the gallery had no case to answer. Warning signs Nicola Reasbeck, Chief Crown Prosecutor, said: "The CPS has the right to take over a private prosecution and prosecute it ourselves, take it over and stop the case, or allow the private prosecution to continue. "Having considered the evidence in this case with great care, we are satisfied that there is no case to answer. "We have taken into account all the circumstances, including the fact that there was no public disorder relating to the exhibition and that there was a warning at the entrance to the gallery about the nature of the work on display. "The case has therefore been discontinued." The statue was part of Baltic's September 2007 to January 2008 exhibition by controversial Chinese-born artist Terence Koh, "Gone, Yet Still". Mrs Mapfuwa, of Brentwood, instructed her lawyers to seek a private prosecution against the gallery for outraging public decency and causing harassment alarm and distress to the public.



Bookmark with: Delicious

Digg

reddit

Facebook

StumbleUpon What are these? E-mail this to a friend Printable version
====================
The birth of Dolly the sheep 20 years ago proved that DNA from an adult cell of a mammal could be transferred to an unfertilized egg and give rise to an animal genetically identical to the donor. Yet Dolly died prematurely, which left the impression that cloned animals have shorter life spans.

To figure out if clones are inherently less healthy than their “natural” counterparts, University of Nottingham developmental biologist Kevin Sinclair followed four of Dolly's clones—Debbie, Denise, Dianna and Daisy (above)—from birth through middle age. All four were derived from the same batch of frozen mammary gland cells as Dolly was. Sinclair and his colleagues also monitored nine cloned sheep of other breeds. The 13 ruminants are now more than nine years old—the equivalent of a human's seventh or eighth decade—and all are as healthy as regular sheep, according to scans of their bones, blood glucose readings and detailed blood pressure monitoring. “We can say these [clones] are perfectly normal,” Sinclair says. The results were published in Nature Communications.

So why did Dolly die young? The scientists who worked with her say she died from a contagious illness that spread through the flock—not because of any problem specific to clones. She did have some arthritis in her knees, but geneticist Helen Sang of the Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, where Dolly was born, notes that any sheep kept inside and fed treats as often as Dolly was would be subject to joint problems.

Two decades later cloning is still less efficient than normal breeding. But the new study shows that if a cloned animal survives gestation and is in good health during the first few weeks of life, it is likely to have the same chances of thriving as other animals of its breed. Cloning is used today to generate embryonic stem cells for research and to breed high-value livestock. Long live the copies!
====================
So last Wednesday my rematch book gift shows at the mailroom at work. I'm lazy and don't bother to pick it up until 6 days later. I take it to my desk and open it to find four books!

Awesome, I think, but then I look to see what I got.

1) Neal Stephenson's not yet released new novel - Seveneves (an advance copy).

2) William Gibsons's latest novel - The Peripheral.

3) Neil Gaiman's latest short story collection - Trigger Warning.

4) Daniel Handler's (a.k.a. Lemony Snicket) new adult novel - We Are Pirates

This is incredible! Three of my favorite authors (Stephenson, Gibson, Gaiman)! I also was a huge fan of ASOUE by Snicket, so I'm pretty excited to read Handler's adult fiction.

But wait, I read the note, can it be? YES! The Handler and the Gibson are signed copies! I'm just in awe. Seeing Gibson's scrawl is just amazing. I'm a huge fan of Gibson and short of meeting the man myself, this is the best thing my Rematch Santa could have done!

Thanks /u/old_custer!
====================
Update July 1: Michael Leahy at Breitbart has more on this story, here yesterday.

I know, I know, it is a CNN story with Jake Tapper on the byline, but there is very likely truth to it.

I’m not weighing in on the merits (or demerits) of such a move, my purpose here is to once again show you that the Obama shadow government, in this case Anne Richard, FORMER Asst. Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and Migration has a pipeline in to the career bureaucrats running the refugee program in the Department of State and she is carrying their news to the likes of CNN.

The primary reason that the Deep State would not support the move of the program to the Dept. of Homeland Security is that they (in State) have a decades-long cushy relationship with the refugee contractors that I keep yelling about (here and here just this morning).

They are all on the same page—more, more, more refugees for America!

First, get the contractors (yelling and propagandizing) out of the system completely and reform of the program could be accomplished. (This depends on the lazy lunks in Congress!)

And, second!

Trump must get his loyalists placed in positions above the bureaucrats to get this under control.

Career people can’t be fired unless, and until, they are caught in insubordination to a boss. Right now Trump is at fault for not picking their bosses!

Here is CNN quoting Anne Richard extensively so she must be the one carrying the tales….

Washington (CNN)The White House is considering a proposal to move both the State Department bureau of Consular Affairs and its bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration to the Department of Homeland Security, a senior White House official tells CNN.

The move, which the White House official cautioned was far from becoming official policy, would likely be controversial among diplomats and experts in State Department matters.

[….]

“It would be a huge mistake,” said Anne Richard, who led the bureau of Population Refugees, and Migration during President Barack Obama’s second term.

[….]

The proposals were written in a memo submitted to the White House Office of Management and Budget from the White House Domestic Policy Council as part of President Trump’s March executive order pushing for ideas for Government Reorganization.

A State Department spokesperson referred CNN to the White House for comment.

The extremely complicated admissions process now starts with the UNITED NATIONS making the first cut as we have reported ad nauseam.

The White House did not explain the reasoning behind the recommendations, but perhaps the idea is rooted in a desire to streamline the refugee vetting process. As it stands currently, the United Nations High Commission of Refugees refers applicants to the State Department for vetting. This vetting is carried out by nine International Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) with American interests***; all of which are managed by the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration. Approved applicants are then sent to the Department of Homeland Security for final vetting. After final vetting at DHS, the State Department then resumes supervision of the process with its Reception and Placement Program.

[….]

Richard, the former Obama State Department official, pinned the proposal on an “imperfect understanding” of the bureau’s function. It’s not mainly a law enforcement body, Richard said, rather, it works with nongovernmental organizations and the UN to assist refugees around the world. [And that is the problem—the NGOs and the UN—ed]



More here.

*** Are there other interests operating Resettlement Support Centers??? See here.

Nine Department of State-funded Resettlement Support Centers (RSCs) not to be confused with the nine major refugee contractors (except that there is some overlap because some contractors work at these RSCs). Look at these locations. Can you say opportunity for fraud!

Amman, Jordan with sub-offices in Baghdad, Iraq and Cairo, Egypt;

• Bangkok, Thailand with a sub-office in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia;

• Damak, Nepal;

• Havana, Cuba;

• Istanbul, Turkey with a sub-office in Beirut, Lebanon;

• Moscow, Russia with a sub-office in Kyiv, Ukraine;

• Nairobi, Kenya with a sub-office in Johannesburg, South Africa;

• Vienna, Austria; and

• Quito, Ecuador with small sub-offices in San Salvador, El Salvador and Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

The nine federal resettlement contractors who are fighting tooth and nail to let nothing rock their cushy relationship with the DOS:
====================
The company handling customer queries for Irish Water has denied a report that a staff member was "rushed to hospital" after a customer pack including human excrement was received.

Cork's 96FM reports the staff member noticed a cut on his hand, and was brought to hospital, and that another staff member fainted and was also brought to hospital by ambulance.

While confirming that an "offensive" item was received yesterday, Abtran said no members of staff had been impacted - "other than it being an offensive matter".

The company reported the incident to the Gardaí.

It is understood that the staff member who fainted in an incident unrelated to the package received first aid at the office.

96FM's report that used tampons and razor blades had also been received by Abtran staff in other incidents was not specifically addressed by Abtran, but the company stressed the delivery of the pack containing human excrement was "an isolated incident".

In a statement, Cork-based Abtran said: "Abtran confirms that one of its offices in Cork received an item of post in recent days containing some offensive matter.

"The item of post was inspected by security personnel at Abtran...This is an isolated occurrence and Abtran does not wish to comment further on this subject.

"The incident has been reported to the Gardaí.

"No members of staff were impacted directly by this occurrence other than it being an offensive matter."

Abtran's five-year contract includes provision for the empoloyment of up to 400 employees to operate a contact call centre for Irish Water.

The company is based in Bishopstown in Cork.
====================
News Release 12-168

Precision Motion Tracking - Thousands of Cells at a Time

Novel microscopy technique could open new windows into protozoan behavior, microbial diseases and fertility



This illustration and data set depict the new microscopy technique.



September 17, 2012



This material is available primarily for archival purposes. Telephone numbers or other contact information may be out of date; please see current contact information at media contacts.

Researchers have developed a new way to observe and track large numbers of rapidly moving objects under a microscope, capturing precise motion paths in three dimensions.

Over the course of the study--reported online Sept. 17, 2012, in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences--researchers followed an unprecedented 24,000 rapidly moving cells over wide fields of view and through large sample volumes, recording each cell's path for as long as 20 seconds.

"We can very precisely track the motion of small things, more than a thousand of them at the same time, in parallel," says research lead and National Science Foundation CAREER awardee Aydogan Ozcan, an electrical engineering and bioengineering professor at UCLA. "We were able to achieve sub-micron accuracy over a large volume, allowing us to understand, statistically, how thousands of objects move in different ways."

The latest study is an extension of several years of NSF-supported work by Ozcan and his colleagues to develop lens-free, holographic microscopy techniques with applications for field-based detection of blood-borne diseases and other areas of tele-medicine. Those efforts recently resulted in a Popular Mechanics Breakthrough Award and a National Geographic Emerging Explorer Award, among others. Ozcan's research is also supported through an NIH Director's New Innovator Award, Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award and an Army Research Office Young Investigator Award from the Department of Defense.

For the recent work, Ozcan and his colleagues--Ting-Wei Su, also of UCLA, and Liang Xue, of both UCLA and Nanjing University of Science and Technology in China--used offset beams of red and blue light to create holographic information that, when processed using sophisticated software, accurately reveal the paths of objects moving under a microscope. The researchers tracked several cohorts of more than 1,500 human male gamete cells over a relatively wide field of view (more than 17 square millimeters) and large sample volume (up to 17 cubic millimeters) over several seconds.

The technique, along with a novel software algorithm that the team developed to process observational data, revealed previously unknown statistical pathways for the cells. The researchers found that human male gamete cells travel in a series of twists and turns along a constantly changing path that occasionally follows a tight helix--a spiral that, 90 percent of the time, is in a clockwise (right-handed) direction.

Because only four to five percent of the cells in a given sample traveled in a helical path at any given time, researchers would not have been able to observe the rare behavior without the new high-throughput microscopy technique.

"This latest study is an extension of truly novel and creative work," says Leon Esterowitz, the NSF biophotonics program officer who has supported Ozcan's efforts. "The holographic technique could accelerate drug discovery and prove valuable for monitoring pharmaceutical treatments of dangerous microbial diseases."

The PNAS paper reports observations of 24,000 cells over the duration of the experiments. Such a large number of observations provide a statistically significant dataset and a useful methodology for potentially studying a range of subjects, from the impact of pharmaceuticals and other substances on large numbers of cells--in real time--to fertility treatments and drug development.

The same approach may also enable scientists to study quick-moving, single-celled microorganisms. Many of the dangerous protozoa found in unsanitary drinking water and rural bodies of water have only been observed in small samples moving through an area that is roughly two dimensional. The new lens-free holographic imaging technique could potentially reveal unknown elements of protozoan behavior and allow real-time testing of novel drug treatments to combat some of the most deadly forms of those microbes.

-NSF-



These images show, for the first time, human male gamete cell swimming patterns.

Credit and Larger Version

Media Contacts

Joshua A. Chamot, NSF, (703) 292-7730, email: jchamot@nsf.gov

Matthew Chin, UCLA School of Engineering, (310) 206-0680, email: mchin@support.ucla.edu



Program Contacts

Leon Esterowitz, NSF, (703) 292-7942, email: lesterow@nsf.gov



Principal Investigators

Aydogan Ozcan, UCLA, (310) 825 0915, email: ozcan@ucla.edu



The National Science Foundation (NSF) is an independent federal agency that supports fundamental research and education across all fields of science and engineering. In fiscal year (FY) 2019, its budget is $8.1 billion. NSF funds reach all 50 states through grants to nearly 2,000 colleges, universities and other institutions. Each year, NSF receives more than 50,000 competitive proposals for funding and makes about 12,000 new funding awards.

Get News Updates by Email

Useful NSF Web Sites:

NSF Home Page: https://www.nsf.gov

NSF News: https://www.nsf.gov/news/

For the News Media: https://www.nsf.gov/news/newsroom.jsp

Science and Engineering Statistics: https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/

Awards Searches: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/
====================
15

Mantras Emanate Spiritual Aura

Call it a chant, a shloka, an invocation or a prayer, mantras by their very nature create an aura of spiritual or religious nature, making us step into the meditative phase and relate to whatever concept of a Higher Power we may possess. Because of their inherent poetic or musical quality, they seem to bring a distant God closer to us. There is a school of thought that believes that exact words are not important while another school swears by the correct pronounciation of each word in a mantra as being important to the fulfilment of the purpose of the prayer. The sounds as well as the meanings may be crucial steps in reaching a higher state of being from our normal state. Why not discover the benefits of reciting a mantra of your choice for yourself?
====================
Shadow of the Colossus‘ original director, the famed Fumito Ueda, is providing direct feedback to developer Bluepoint regarding its remake of the iconic PlayStation 2 game. Speaking to Eurogamer at the Gamelab conference in Barcelona, Ueda mentioned that he submitted, “a petition about content and tuning.” That is to say, he offered a list of changes that he would make if he was directing the remake, but Fumito Ueda is not involved with the project.

Ueda would go on to refuse citing any of his recommendations for the Shadow of the Colossus remake, acknowledging that those details wouldn’t likely be constructive if available to the public:

“Those things of the remake that I would like to change, I can’t mention, because if I say one thing and in the final version that thing is not included, it’s a problem.”

It’s an interesting position for Ueda to be in, watching another company rework his game. And not just any game, as Shadow of the Colossus is often considered one of the best games ever made. It’s likely for that reason that Ueda is willing to give Bluepoint his advice regarding changes.

Even without Ueda’s guidance, Bluepoint seems well suited to the task. The studio has a long history of remastering and collecting older games for newer platforms, including the God of War Collection on PS3 and the Nathan Drake Collection on PS4.

Shadow of the Colossus isn’t just a remaster, however; it’s a full-fledged remake. Where a title like Halo 2 Anniversary delivers current-gen visuals on top of old-gen code, Bluepoint is apparently developing Shadow from the ground up. The studio presumably has the freedom to change or improve features in the game, or even tweak the gameplay to better suit a modern audience.

That Fumito Ueda has been able to provide feedback to the team at Bluepoint implies that the studio requested his input, as it’s unlikely Ueda would have done so otherwise. Though Bluepoint could simply have been doing a courtesy.

It’s a complicated situation for all parties involved, one which will shine a spotlight on both Bluepoint and Ueda. And that’s true even if Sony’s Shueu Yoshida insists that Ueda isn’t involved in the project, since Shadow of the Colossus will always be Fumito Ueda’s game.

Fumito Ueda finished his interview talking about his new game, which is currently unannounced. He says he’d like to, “finish a game as soon as quickly possible” and hopes to create “something very different.” With a Shadow of the Colossus remake release on the way, he’ll have plenty of opportunity to reflect on and compare his past work with his new.

Shadow of the Colossus is planned for release in early 2018 exclusively for the PlayStation 4.

Source: Eurogamer
====================
Steve Kerr made up his mind seven months ago, within hours, if not minutes, of Donald Trump being elected president.

And some of his Warriors players were not far behind.

Kerr told NBCSportsBayArea.com last November that if the Warriors were to win the NBA Finals, he would not accept an invitation to visit the White House.

[REWIND: 'Woke' David West is going to fight the fight against Donald Trump]

Those were Kerr’s feelings then, but he felt it would be presumptuous to express them publicly during the middle of a season. Now that the Warriors have the championship, taking out the Cavaliers in five games, don’t expect that to change.

The Warriors are prepared to make a political statement, multiple sources confirmed to NBCSportsBayArea.com Tuesday afternoon.

A report early Tuesday morning indicated the team had voted unanimously to boycott any invitation that might come from the White House.

Though the Warriors quickly issued a statement later Tuesday morning indicating no final decision has been made, not a man in the locker room or in the coach’s office would be comfortable visiting a president who has sowed such division while renouncing civility and from the country’s highest office.

“Today is all about celebrating our championship,” said the statement. “We have not received an invitation to the White House, but will make those decisions when and if necessary.”

Though NBA commissioner Adam Silver has implied all champions should be honored to receive an invitation from the White House, regardless of the resident, the Warriors -- players, coaches and beyond -- have been clear in disavowing Trump’s conduct and policies.

Veteran forward David West has been highly critical of Trump and has no desire to visit him.

Stephen Curry, too, has been openly critical of Trump and, so far, can’t find it within himself to visit a White House where this president is in residence.

[RELATED: Will Shaun Livingston return to Warriors next season? 'It's a business']

Veterans Andre Iguodala and Shaun Livingston during the regular season told NBCSportsBayArea.com they would skip the ceremonial visit should the season end with a championship.

So while the Warriors, as of Tuesday, were not ready to officially announce a boycott of a potential trip to the White House, expect them to be the first NBA team to pass on such an opportunity.

That is, should they receive an invitation.
====================
The bursaries are being offered to recruit 37 GPs in 'hard to fill' locations.

GPs: There are 37 posts which have been listed as 'hard to fill'. Peter Byrne / PA Archive/PA Images

Junior doctors have been offered a £20,000 bursary to fill 37 GP posts in "hard to fill locations" in Scotland.

The grants form part of a drive to recruit a total of 100 new GPs across the country .

Health secretary Shona Robison described the five-figure sum as a "financial incentive" for the jobs.

She said: "General practice is the heart of our NHS, and is becoming ever more important as we build the community health service of the future.

"That is why we are investing to recruit more junior doctors into GP training posts - with 100 extra places advertised this year to help build the primary care workforce of the future.

"However, we know there are some parts of the country that have challenges recruiting - mainly because of their geographical location. So we're offering a financial incentive with certain posts to fill these vital training places.

The new addition of 100 advertised posts now brings the total of specialist training posts advertised this year in Scotland to 439.

Scotland's deputy chief medical officer Dr Gregor Smith, who was a GP, said he can "highly recommend" the role to junior doctors.

Dr Smith said: "There are some fantastic opportunities for training available in Scotland - whether that is working in inner-city communities or with remote and rural populations, all within a flexible and supportive training environment.

"General practice, particularly, is unique in being able to build that special relationship with patients which can potentially span decades and generations. It's flexibility can allow you to pursue both professional and personal interests further.

"It is a fantastic career and one which I would highly recommend to junior doctors."

Junior doctors have been a focus of political attention following an unprecedented series of strike action against a new contract in the NHS in England in late 2015.

A new contract was agreed in May 2016. Applications for the roles open on August 9 and close on August 25.

Want the inside story from John MacKay? Sign up to the 'MacKay Mail' newsletter. Subscribe This field is required. That doesn't look like a valid e-mail format, please check. That e-mail's already in our system. Please try again. Please tick the box below to confirm your subscription Thanks for subscribing to our 'MacKay Mail' newsletter. Subscribed Want the inside story from John MacKay? Sign up to the 'MacKay Mail' newsletter. Thanks for subscribing to our 'MacKay Mail' newsletter. Subscribe

Download: The STV News app is Scotland's favourite and is available for iPhone from the App store and for Android from Google Play. Download it today and continue to enjoy STV News wherever you are.
====================
Armed forces across Russia's entire western military district - which borders the Baltic states - have gone onto a state of high alert, Latvia's Defense Ministry reported Friday.

"For several days in the western military district large-scale Russian military exercises have been observed with a high state of combat-readiness among the 1st Tank Army and 20th Tank Army," the Ministry said.

That means that around 30,000 soldiers as well as heavy machinery units and about 500 tanks are currently on high alert just across the border.

In addition, the western military district is hosting the Collective Security Treaty Organization training exercise "Vzaimodeistvie 2016", which according to official information involves about 6,000 soldiers.

In addition dozens of ships of the Baltic Fleet, Northern Fleet and Black Sea Fleet have left port, the Ministry said.

Latvian armed forces and allies would continue to monitor the situation, it said.

However, a quick look at the Russian Defense Ministry's own website suggests the forces have already been on high alert for more than a week, as they put out a press release saying:

"Control units of tank and combined-arms formations located in the Moscow and Voronezh Regions, formations of Air Force and Air Defence, Baltic Fleet and several formations and military units are to practice controlling the troops (forces) while putting them on highest levels of combat readiness, organizing interaction between military formations of different branches and services of the Armed Forces while performing standard tasks.

"According to the scenario, troops (force) grouping is to hold operation at one of the strategic directions using wide range of means of destruction."
====================
Cryptocurrencies are software-based payment systems which can be used to conduct online transactions. Unlike traditional currencies, these are not issued by any kind government official like a central bank. Cryptocurrencies are also referred to as virtual currencies or digital currencies, and they’re growing in popularity because they offer low fees and commissions. In spite of their decentralized nature, cryptocurrencies are here to stay. Here are 7 of the most popular digital currencies being used around the world.

#1 Bitcoin

Bitcoin is an open-source software-based system which was first released to the public in 2009. It is a distributed system, because payments are handled by a peer-to-peer system, and there is no central repository. All payments are recorded in a public ledger. Users of the software offer their computing power for transactions. This is called mining, and they receive newly created bitcoins in exchange. Bitcoins can be used to buy products or services, and users can send bitcoins to each other.
====================
As most of the world has duly noted, Canada under the neo-Conservative Harper regime has been a front-runner in supporting Israel in its racial apartheid policies in Israel. Also, recently a discussion comparing South Africa’s apartheid system with that of Israel has occurred with South African testimony indicating that, while they are not the same, they are very similar, and in some circumstances, Israel’s apartheid is worse. What is not seen is Canada’s role in modeling apartheid for South Africa under the Afrikaner-dominated National Party. Canada’s role in developing these systems of apartheid has been seldom noted academically, and is given very little attention either domestically or internationally.

It is generally recognized that North America was a series of colonies from Great Britain, France, Spain, and Russia, with a few Dutch thrown into the mix. The first ‘discoverers’ of America, the Norse Vikings, died out through their lack of ability to adapt to the climatic changes that overtook them. The later colonial settlers survived in part because they did accept the graciousness of the indigenous peoples in assisting them, from which Canada and the U.S. derive their respective national holiday, Thanksgiving.

However, right from the start, these colonial-settler immigrants created myths that allowed them to overrun the native populations without too many qualms about the abuses they perpetrated. Religion, race, and government policies all had a great deal to do with this. The two main myths directed at the Indians of North America can be located elsewhere in the world where colonial-settler populations have invaded. The first myth is that North America was a vast empty land filled with riches to be exploited by the newcomers. Somewhat in contradiction to that is the myth that the Indians were primitives, needing to be civilized, a notion that included religion, land ownership, and the rule of white man’s law.

The reality of history is much more disconcerting for those concerned about human rights and the nature of our societies, as they were, and as they exist today. I will not deal with the history of the native population in the U.S., although it is interrelated with that of Canada. It is generally recognized that after the era of glorious movie westerns celebrating the settlement of the empty plains and mountains, the reality is that of a steady policy of genocide, racism, and warfare against the native people while capitalist ownership of land subjugated the landscape.

Canada’s native history

Canada’s story is a bit different, especially as perceived in comparison to that of the U.S. It is true we do not have the same degree of violent history over the native population, but it is a history that nonetheless is still violent, genocidal, and racist. Current events reflect that it is still violent, if of a different form, and still very much racist, although covered over with all sorts of ignorant platitudes. Unfortunately as well, the vestiges of apartheid still hang on within Canadian governance, never described as such, with the blame for its human rights abuses being blamed mainly on the recipients of that abuse—racism at its most civilized.

These thoughts all coalesced this summer while I was travelling across Canada. Somewhere along the line (literally—I went by train), I bought a powerful, damning critique of Canadian government policy during the era of Canada’s colonial settlement years across Canada’s vast resource rich prairie region. Clearing the Plains: Disease, Politics of Starvation, and the Loss of Aboriginal Life, (University of Regina Press, 2013), written by James Daschuk, is a study of the Canadian settlement in relation to the early fur trade up to the time when the railroads opened up the plains for the large settler populations from Europe, most from eastern Europe. The title is very indicative of the content, and as I read it I was also reminded of Jared Diamond’s Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies (Norton & Company, 1999).

It is Diamond’s middle term, germs, that plays a significant role in Canada’s history, although guns and steel had their fair share, and all were tied into political policies of the day.

By the time the fur traders arrived in the Prairie region of Canada, epidemics of European origin had already swept through many of the tribes, decimating a population that had not previously been exposed to them. While this is an attribute of all peoples not previously exposed to particular microbes, the problem in Canada was significantly increased by both a lack of interest in native health—other than for labor for harvesting the beaver pelts – and later a government official policy of ‘near starvation.’ Without their historical access to food as the buffalo herds were decimated as a foodstock for the early traders and settlers, and without reliable water resources as the beaver population was decimated for the leisure class in Europe, the natives were highly susceptible to foreign microbes as malnutrition compromised their immune systems. As the fur trade progressed in its many facets, then died out to be replaced by the railroads and settlements, the vectors for transmission of disease increased. As the vectors increased, so did the government policies of starvation and apartheid.

Our current neo-Conservative government loves to promote the achievements of Sir John A. Macdonald, considered the ‘father of confederation.’ It is perhaps not surprising then that their current attitudes towards the native population are reminiscent of their political heritage. It was Sir John A. MacDonald who said, “We cannot allow them to die for want of food….[We] are doing all we can, by refusing food until the Indians are on the verge of starvation, to reduce the expense.”

The Liberals were not significantly different as opposition to the government. They were “an important factor in constraining the government expenditures on the Indian population….the prime minister pre-empted criticism by promising to keep the hungry from dying, but assuring the House that his government would be “rigid, even stingy” in the distribution of food.”

This pretense of financial responsibility was of course part and parcel of the countries policy of settlement of the prairies. Along with this simple policy of starvation were several other factors (such as the lack of immunities mentioned above) that were part of Canada’s racial apartheid policy.

Reservations

Today, much of Canada has no recognizable Indian territories other than the small parcels of land allocated to the various remaining band populations under the Indian Act (1876). This Act purportedly provided the Queen’s protection for the natives including the enforcement of the various treaties that ceded huge swaths of territory to the Canadian government. These reservations have a history of being revoked, resettled, cut-off, redrawn, leaving mostly small remnants of generally poorer geographical areas for native use.

The treaties themselves were and are generally treated as inconveniences for the government and were not much more than lip service for their underlying articles for rights and assistance. The Indian Act placed the native population under the care of the ‘crown’—the government—and has been used as a device to control and limit native power rather than to uphold treaty obligations: “To Canadian officials, the widespread occupation of reserves had another benefit: it greatly facilitated their control of the population.” This was managed in several ways along with the official policy of starvation.

Agricultural practices were one factor. Although encouraged to settle and take up farming, the government controlled agricultural practices, “An order in council was passed to forbid the inhabitants of reserves from “selling, bartering, exchanging or giving any person or persons whatsoever, any grain, or root crops, or any other produce grown on any Indian Reserve in the Northwest territories [as the prairie regions was then called].” The move was intended to preserve locally grown food for the communities that produced it, but it also had the effect of barring reserve farmers from participating in the commercial economy of the northwest.”

As usual the excuse for the action and the intended effect are contradictory. The ultimate idea “was not that the Indian should become self-supporting. He was only to be kept quiet till the country filled up when his ill will could be ignored.”

Settlements

With the arrival of the railways, sections of land were given to immigrants in order to establish an agricultural economy. This was done through providing the railways themselves with enormous tracts of land, and relocating the natives.

“The most significant relocation was the forced removal of communities from their chosen reserves in the Cypress Hills after the decision to build the Canadian Pacific Railway along the southern prairies….In doing so, the Canadian government accomplished the ethnic cleansing of southwestern Saskatchewan of its indigenous population.”

Starvation was a tool within this policy as “Rations were deliberately withheld until the chief capitulated.”

Another factor of control was the institution of a pass system. With a pass, the natives were given certain rights subject to the Indian Act and ultimate control by the government. It was “perhaps the most onerous regulation placed on the Indians after the rebellion,” implemented to limit the mobility of treaty Indians, keeping them on their reserves and away from European communities.”

Culture

Once the land was removed—and the land is essential to any indigenous people’s culture—the cultural attributes of the indigenous people were attacked. Foremost among these efforts were the Residential schools controlled mainly by the Catholic and Anglican religions (paid for by the government) that followed the white man into the prairies. Native languages and religious rituals were forbidden, visitations were limited, the program of minimal nourishment and lack of health care continued, the latter contributing to many unrecorded deaths among the native children. Along with these limitations and prohibitions, the religious orders created a situation ripe for sexual abuse and assault. These institutions existed until as late as 1996 when the last one was closed down.

Beyond the residential schools, band based religious practices were forbidden. Indigenous rights to access courts were forbidden. The right to vote did not arrive fully until 1960; before then if a native were to vote, their treaty rights—such as they were—were revoked, another means to control the reserve populations.

Disease continues

Racism was easily inculcated into the settlers across the prairies as by the time they arrived in the late Nineteenth Century, they were witness to the nadir of native health and culture. What they saw was a population decimated by disease, incapable of supporting themselves, unkempt and “uncivilized”. They did not know or care to know the conditions that had reduced the once self-sufficient and culturally whole tribes to a state of haggard dependency on an uncaring government.

The Indian Act still controls the reserve system and is still used and abused by the government to control the native population. While outright starvation is not a serious problem, modern diseases—AIDS, diabetes, alcoholism, suicide—are significantly higher in native populations than in the rest of Canada.

Education is still used as a tool to manipulate both the native people and the opinions of the non-native population. The latter is managed by the latent racism that is not far below the surface of many Canadians of all political stripes, very clearly seen in response to protests or demonstrations, especially with the “Silent no more” actions.

Economic activity is another tool used to manipulate the current native populations. Individual economic agreements with bands are attempts to both divide the populations in the bands as well as get around Treaty requirements and other Federal or Provincial regulations in many aspects of the economy from agriculture to mining and forestry. Money is still used as a manipulator, with promises and conditions being put forward that overall are attempts by the government to destroy the resurgence in native culture, to destroy its ability to use constitutional law against the government.

The Canadian apartheid system is still alive. It is not as demonstrative or obvious as that of Israel or formerly of South Africa, but it still exists as a construct within Canadian governance. As concluded by Daschuk, “While Canadians see themselves as world leaders in social welfare, health care, and economic development, most reserves in Canada are economic backwaters with little prospect of material advancement and more in common with the third world than the rest of Canada.”

Apartheid in South Africa

As I indicated above, I will not discuss the relationships, differences, and commonalities between South Africa and Canada and Israel. There are two recent works that discuss Israeli apartheid in comparison to South African apartheid that I have read: The Battle for Justice in Palestine, (Haymarket Press, 2014) and The Anatomy of Zionist Apartheid (Porcupine Press, SA, 2013). Both provide the obvious evidence for the state of apartheid in Israel, with valid comparisons to South Africa.

There is however a Canadian link. Officially Canada opposed South Africa’s apartheid system, but underneath trade and economic business carried on as usual. Canada only went against it when popular opinion became too strong to resist as a political platform. The real tie to South African apartheid is not at this level, but comes from South Africa modelling the Canadian reserve system and its instruments in order to implement apartheid in South Africa.

“Notwithstanding this self-congratulatory revisionism, Canada mostly supported apartheid in South Africa. First, by providing it with a model. South Africa patterned its policy towards Blacks after Canadian policy towards First Nations. Ambiguous Champion [University of Toronto Press, 1997] explains, ‘South African officials regularly came to Canada to examine reserves set aside for First Nations, following colleagues who had studied residential schools in earlier parts of the century.’”

More recently Thomas Mulcair, as opposition leader to the current neo-Cons, commenting after the passing of Nelson Mandela, “makes a fairly direct comparison between South Africa’s apartheid regime and Canada’s treatment of the First Nations, Inuit and Métis people. He’s not wrong, either — in fact, the apartheid system was based on Canada’s Indian Act. Our residential schools, Indian Reserve and many other deeply racist systems inspired South Africa’s oppressive regime. I’m glad that at least one of our federal leaders has (somewhat) acknowledged this in their remarks on Mandela’s death.”

Thus for all of Canada’s rhetoric about apartheid in South Africa and its rhetoric in support of Israeli and therefore its apartheid, there is a strong linkage demonstrating the positive role Canada has had in creating and maintaining the apartheid systems.

Israel’s apartheid

Apartheid in Israel is obvious to anyone reading about how the overall cultural-geopolitical landscape is managed. Accompanying apartheid, ethnic cleansing has also occurred, on a scale probably larger and more violent than occurred in Canada; genocide has not been a significant factor in Israel yet (other than used as an ongoing excuse for being the global victim of ethnic hatred), but was a considerable factor in Canada.

Certainly there are similarities and differences. Israel, like Canada, is a colonial-settler country, with the original Zionist philosophers clearly recognizing the problem of an already existing population in Palestine. Theodore Herzl recognized it clearly, advocating the ethnic cleansing of the region, “Spirit the penniless population across the frontier by denying it employment… Both the process of expropriation and the removal of the poor must be carried out discreetly and circumspectly.” (Theodore Herzl, founder of the World Zionist Organization, speaking of the Arabs of Palestine, Complete Diaries, June 12, 1895 entry.)

Ben Gurion also warned in 1948 after the independence war and the expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians from their villages and towns, “We must do everything to ensure they (the Palestinians) never do return.” Assuring his fellow Zionists that Palestinians will never come back to their homes, “The old will die and the young will forget.

The lie of denial of an existing population, reminiscent of North America’s ‘unoccupied’ lands is frequently quoted from Golda Meir, “How can we return the occupied territories? There is nobody to return them to.” (Golda Meir, March 8, 1969.) “There was no such thing as Palestinians, they never existed.” (Golda Meir Israeli Prime Minister June 15, 1969.)

Cultural apartheid

Apartheid is a construct that includes both cultural and geographical elements. The idea of ethnic cleansing and the denial of existence as above is one such factor. There are many others.

Strangely enough, the idea of starvation as a manipulator of populations has been one of the more recent manifestations of Israeli policy, most particularly as directed against Gaza. Dov Weisglass,advisor to Ehud Olmert stated, “The idea,” he said, “is to put the Palestinians on a diet, but not to make them die of hunger.” Sounds strangely familiar to Canada’s policy of the Nineteenth century.

Canada somehow calculated what it thought were minimal survival rations for its indigenous populations, and it appears that Israel carried that forward with even more mathematical precision, “While the health ministry determined that Gazans needed a daily average of 2,279 calories each to avoid malnutrition – requiring 170 lorries a day – military officials then found a host of pretexts to whittle the number down to a fraction of the original figure. The reality was that, in this period, an average of only 67 lorries – much less than half of the minimum requirement – entered Gaza daily. This compared to more than 400 lorries before the blockade began.”

Other cultural factors

Racism, ethnic cleansing, starvation are manifestations of cultural policies that support apartheid and its purposes. The purpose in Israel, unlike Canada, is the great demographic fear of the burgeoning Arab population within Israel and cantonized Palestine.

There are many other cultural factors that come into play, similar in several respects to Canada’s apartheid system.

Education is controlled centrally, and the knowledge base allowed for Palestinian education ignores completely the ‘nakba’ and its ethnic cleansing and instances of mass murder. Islam is obviously an ongoing religious base for the Palestinians, but it is increasingly demonized as an ideology of evil, resulting in the ever present rhetoric of an existential threat. Many laws are discriminatory, with rulings on land ownership, residency, marriage, mobility, and other facets of civilian life being restricted by Israeli courts.

Most Palestinians live under military rule where civilian law simply does not exist. Movement of any kind and daily life can all be controlled at the whim of regional military personnel and/or Shin Bet.

Geographical apartheid

The reality of apartheid however is the physical setting. Racism and ethnic hatred can spread throughout cultural systems and can support apartheid, but they are not apartheid itself. Israel is clearly an apartheid state from its actions on the ground. These have been well explained in many, many books and articles over the past several decades.

The physical landscape of apartheid is clearly visible in Israel. The euphemistic ‘wall’ is one of the larger barriers, supposedly to keep out ‘terrorists’ but in reality enclosing prime settlements, agricultural lands, and water sources. The settlements are designed to capture and hold prime landscapes for demographic control as well as resource control, physically grabbing land and effectively denying the validity of a two state solution with a contiguous Palestinian state. Roads are built that bypass Palestinian settlements, providing both a barrier to Palestinian movement and a continuous web of encroachment and encirclement of Palestinian villages and farmlands. The indiscriminate destruction of Palestinian housing on various trumped up civilian rules and on military authorizations to evict resistance fighters slowly clears land to be later incorporated into Israeli settlements using various laws concerning land usage and residency.

Gaza

Looking at a map of areas ‘controlled’ by Palestine reveals a largely diminished and fragmented series of bantustan style areas remaining. The West Bank is ostensibly under the rule of Abbas, but its apartheid nature is still clear from the descriptions given above. Gaza is the largest indicator of Israeli apartheid, and an indicator of the viciousness of Israeli apartheid.

Starvation as a policy is directly applied—and acknowledged—as a control mechanism for Gaza. Gaza is technically not occupied but all of its land, sea, and air space is controlled by Israeli military force. It is in essence a large concentration camp, completely controlled in all its physical aspects by Israel.

The ultimate purpose of Israeli apartheid is similar to that of Canada, the Palestinians are “to be kept quiet till the country filled up when his ill will could be ignored.” That purpose cannot be realized without much violence: Canada’s indigenous population is very small in comparison the overall population; Gaza in particular and the Palestinians in general are about on par with the Israeli population, but with a higher birth rate that, as always, gives the big demographic threat to the idea of a unitary theological state called Israel.

Partners in apartheid

Apartheid in Israel is a process used to try and eliminate as many Palestinians through emigration as possible, and perhaps the same conditions as in Canada: starvation leading to malnutrition, compromised immune systems, especially among the young, and an eventual and inevitable outbreak of some epidemic.

Fortunately for the Palestinians, the world is watching. Drastic actions, including the past three invasions of Gaza by Israel, are openly observed by the world. The result of all these actions has been an increase in support for Palestinians and a much more critical view of Israel and its national intentions. The boycott, divestment, and sanctions movement has strengthened and Israel is increasingly recognized globally as a threat to Middle East peace.

Canada remains in the forefront of countries supporting Israel. This devolves from Canada’s history of Christian Zionism, its support of Britain’s colonial systems, and its current neo-Conservative government with its fundamentalist evangelical mythology. On the surface the Harper neo-Conservatives argue in terms of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, and the evil of terror perpetrated by “Islamicism” (Harper’s coined term to try and create a pejorative view of Islam). Underneath lies the religious fundamentalism combined with strong support for non-democratic corporate control of governance. Canada has distinct problems with human rights, the ongoing problems with the Indian communities and reserves being the largest, its ongoing support of Israel and its apartheid policies being another.

Final word to Canada’s indigenous population

Grand Chief Matthew Coon Come, attending the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples (WCIP), an historic two-day meeting, that began on Sept. 22 at the UN General Assembly in New York, summarized Canada’s position, “For years, the Harper government has refused to consult indigenous rights-holders on crucial issues, especially when it involves international forums. This repeated failure to consult violates Canada’s duty under Canadian constitutional and international law.”

In his opening remarks, Ban declared to indigenous peoples from all regions of the world, “You will always have a home at the United Nations.” Yet in our own home in Canada, the federal government refuses to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
====================
This job posting is no longer available on Indeed.

Do you want to learn how to trade the stock market? Or do you already have experience trading stocks options or forex? If so or you are interested in learning or taking your trading to the next level this opportunity is for you.

I am a veteran stock trader with over 5 years full time trading experience and 10 years market experience. I have developed my own custom algorithms for my hedgefund which I use everyday achieving an average win rate of 80+ percent.

I am looking for trading students who I can work with daily to trade the markets. In return I offer education, access to my algorithms and the ability to learn my proprietary way of trading. This is a 6 month minimum course where you learn everything about the stock market and also trade everyday.

Traders can expect to make 100 000+ a year if they have enough money in their accounts when starting out. I usally reccomend no less than $8000 when starting out.

for more information please send me a email thanks. Note this job allows you to work from home or the office

I mentor each student individually and will be helping them create a trading strategy that is unique to their personality lifestyle and risk tolerances.

Job Type: Full-time

Salary: $100,000.00 /year
====================
The U.S. coal industry is having one of its most difficult years in decades as it faces a long, slow decline.

After years of coal plant closures, lost coal jobs, and the rise of cleaner forms of electricity like natural gas, Interior Secretary Sally Jewell announced on Friday that the government has put a freeze on issuing new leases for coal mining on public lands.

During the moratorium, the government plans to review how the coal mining leases are awarded and could potentially make the leases more expensive for coal mining companies. More expensive leases would both help offset the environmental damage from coal mining and power production and also bring in more royalties for the government.

The announcement is a yet another major blow to the U.S. coal industry. While coal will continue to provide the U.S. with power for many decades, it’s era as the dominant power source could be waning.

The federal government manages leases for coal mining on 570 million acres of land, and a big portion of that is in Wyoming. About 40% of U.S. coal production comes from federal land.

A Government Accountability Office report in 2014 found that the federal government was missing out on $1 billion annually because of undervalued coal leases for big coal companies. For years, environmentalists have complained about these outdated leasing policies that were created decades ago.

A tractor trailer drives by a mound of coal near Arch Coal Terminals in Kentucky in 2014. Photograph by Luke Sharrett — Getty Images

More expensive leases would be yet another expense that the bleeding U.S. coal industry would find painful to endure. America’s second largest coal mining company Arch Coal (ACI) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy earlier this week.

It is just one of the latest coal mining companies to struggle. U.S. coal miners Walter Energy (WLT), Alpha Natural Resources (ANR), and Patriot Coal all filed for bankruptcy last year.

Meanwhile, over the summer the 200th coal power plant in the U.S. was in the process of shutting down over the past several years. A study last year found that the coal industry contracted by 50,000 jobs over the past five years. The energy upheaval is particularly painful if you’re one of the coal miners or coal plant workers who lost one of those jobs.

But the shift away from coal is expected to help the U.S. move toward cleaner burning sources of electricity like natural gas, wind and solar. Natural gas releases fewer carbon emissions when it’s burned to make electricity than coal does.

President Obama has made it a priority to help the U.S. address climate change. After two years of negotiations, he released the final version of a plan last year to reduce carbon emissions from U.S. power plants. Most agreed that coal was the major loser in the plan.

WATCH: China’s coal problem:

Even without federal incentives, low cost natural gas power has been replacing coal in the U.S. for years. At the same time, solar panels and wind turbines have also gotten considerably cheaper, and power companies have been installing these clean technologies as well.

The transition away from coal won’t be rapid, but will occur over several decades. Technologies to help coal plants capture and store carbon emissions could help the industry, but the technology has long been considered too expensive to use commercially.

Outside of the U.S., coal will still rise as a major source of power for developing countries like India. China has been adding coal plants at a rapid clip in recent years, too, but the country is now also reconsidering its reliance as concerns about air pollution there become a critical political issue.
====================


Darlington Nagbe is among three Portland players to miss Saturday’s match against league-leading FC Dallas. (Ted S. Warren/Associated Press)

This Saturday’s match between the MLS points leaders and reigning champions should be the marquee event of the weekend and create the type of buzz the league craves for a regular season affair. Instead, the FC Dallas-Portland Timbers showdown has lost much of its luster because MLS continues to insist on allowing games during the FIFA calendar.

Dallas has lost four potential starters to international duty. Portland will travel without three. The show will go on, reserves will fill voids and plenty of gifted players will take their usual places.

But at this pivotal point of the season — when the Supporters’ Shield and playoff races are at a fevered pitch, critical matches promise to sway the course of the campaign and some teams aim to maintain quality form while others are desperate to find it — MLS has again let down its clubs and supporters by stubbornly defying the sport’s annual agenda.

While most leagues around the world have stepped aside for countless World Cup qualifiers and other competitions, MLS will conduct eight matches over seven days.

The other games are not as tantalizing as Dallas vs. Portland but are, nonetheless, additional examples of how the league undercuts its own efforts of making the regular season matter (when 12 of 20 teams go to the playoffs) and cheats fans out of seeing teams at full strength.

MLS has cited “scheduling challenges” for not stopping play during all FIFA windows, when clubs are required to release players to national teams. Over the years, the league has gotten better in respecting the calendar by arranging fewer matches and, when there is a conflict during the playoffs, going completely dark. It also has halted play during the group stage of the World Cup and, this summer, took a break for part of Copa America Centenario. (It should be noted, however, MLS’s commercial arm, Soccer United Marketing, had a business stake in Copa America.)

In all, more than 50 players from most of the 20 MLS clubs are affected this week and next. Not every team is in action, though. The San Jose Earthquakes, Seattle Sounders, Toronto FC, Sporting Kansas City and Houston Dynamo are off. Individual teams are given the option of skipping certain windows over the course of the the season.

Ironically, several marquee MLS players, such as David Villa and Didier Drogba, have retired from international duty and aren’t affected by the scheduling conflict. Other stars, such as Diego Valeri and Bradley Wright-Phillips, are not in the international mix.

Fourteen MLS players were named to the U.S. squad for two World Cup qualifiers, but six are from clubs that are off during this FIFA window.

The schedule will resume Thursday with New York City FC and D.C. United clashing at Yankee Stadium. NYCFC defender Ronald Matarrita will be in Haiti with the Costa Rican squad, while D.C.’s Steve Birnbaum will travel with the U.S. delegation to St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Both Costa Rica and the United States are seeking to secure passage to CONCACAF’s final round of 2018 World Cup qualifying.

NYC and D.C. have it easy.

On Saturday, the Vancouver Whitecaps, who are four points out of a playoff spot and stuck in a seven-game winless rut, will be without six players on international duty. Their guests, the New York Red Bulls, will have to compensate for the loss of two starters, including MLS assists leader Sacha Kljestan.

The Colorado Rapids will miss five players against the New England Revolution (one absence). The Columbus Crew, the 2015 MLS Cup runner-up which is on the brink of slipping out of postseason contention, lost four players for a trip to Los Angeles.

Both Colorado and Philadelphia, which visits Chicago, will carry on without their starting goalkeepers.

Technically, MLS scheduled only six matches during this FIFA window. But two others fall on Sept. 7, the day after the period closes. One involves Orlando City, which, in the race for the last Eastern Conference playoff berth, will not have its top two scorers, Cyle Larin and Kevin Molino (22 goals and 10 assists combined).

Opting out of playing in this FIFA window was fortuitous for San Jose and Seattle, which had six and five players summoned respectively. Toronto also got a break: Aside from three call-ups, the club announced Monday that 2015 MVP Sebastian Giovinco, whose 16 goals are tied for the league lead this year, will miss up to a month with quadriceps and adductor strains.

Injuries and suspensions are one thing; deliberately creating scheduling conflicts is quite another.

MLS ABSENCES DURING THIS FIFA WINDOW

Thursday

New York City FC vs. D.C. United

NYCFC: Ronald Matarrita (Costa Rica).

DCU: Steve Birnbaum (U.S.).

Saturday

Vancouver Whitecaps vs. New York Red Bulls

VAN: Kendall Waston (Costa Rica), Blas Perez (Panama), Giles Barnes (Jamaica), Christian Bolanos (Costa Rica), David Edgar (Canada), Marcel De Jong (Canada).

NY: Sacha Kljestan (U.S.), Kamar Lawrence (Jamaica).

New England Revolution vs. Colorado Rapids

NE: Je-Vaughn Watson (Jamaica).

COL: Tim Howard (U.S.), Jermaine Jones (U.S.), Shkelzen Gashi (Albania), Marco Pappa (Guatemala), Mekeil Williams (Trinidad and Tobago).

Chicago Fire vs. Philadelphia Union

CHI: David Accam (Ghana), David Arshakyan (Armenia).

PHL: Andre Blake (Jamaica), Alejandro Bedoya (U.S.).

FC Dallas vs. Portland Timbers

DAL: Kellyn Acosta (U.S.), Carlos Gruezo (Ecuador), Tesho Akindele (Canada), Maynor Figueroa (Honduras), Aubrey David (Trinidad and Tobago).

POR: Darlington Nagbe (U.S.), Alvas Powell (Jamaica), Jermaine Taylor (Jamaica).

Los Angeles Galaxy vs. Columbus Crew

LA: None. (Robbie Keane will play for Ireland on Wednesday but is expected back.)

COL: Justin Meram (Iraq), Harrison Afful (Ghana), Tony Tchani (Cameroon), Rodrigo Saravia (Guatemala).

Next Wednesday

Montreal Impact vs. Orlando City

MON: Maxime Crepeau (Canada), Johan Venegas (Costa Rica).

ORL: Cyle Larin (Canada), Kevin Molino (Trinidad and Tobago).

Real Salt Lake vs. Los Angeles Galaxy

RSL: Kyle Beckerman (U.S.), Omar Holness (Jamaica).

LA: None.
====================
Vocal Dallas Cowboys critic Stephen A. Smith blasted the team’s salute to the city’s police officers killed in the July 7 attacks, essentially saying that the team’s many problems with the law made the gesture feel hollow.

“If you have so much respect for the law, why don’t you try obeying it?” Smith said Monday on First Take.

The Cowboys paid tribute to the fallen officers of the Dallas police department Saturday by walking on to the practice field arm in arm with Dallas police chief David Brown and mayor Mike Rawlings.

Smith produced a printed out list of the Cowboys’ legal problems, saying that those legal issues undermined the team’s gesture. He called on the team to stay out of trouble going forward.

We need to fly straight and do right and make sure that we don’t just practice this when a police officer in front of us who is a hero in our eyes based on how he handled everything in the aftermath of those shootings. We want to extend this far beyond that particular date when we are locking arm and arms with police officers and bring attention to both sides, violence against police officers and on the behalf of police officers. The Dallas Cowboys needs to extend further than that.

Watch more above, via ESPN2.

[featured image via screengrab]

–

Follow Joe DePaolo (@joe_depaolo) on Twitter

Have a tip we should know? tips@mediaite.com
====================
Walter Zenga won 58 caps for Italy and played for his country at the 1990 World Cup

Championship club Wolves have parted company with head coach Walter Zenga after just 87 days in charge.

The former Italy goalkeeper, 56, replaced Kenny Jackett on 30 July, shortly after Chinese conglomerate Fosun International bought the club.

Despite significant investment in the playing squad in August, Wolves have won only four of 14 league games and are 18th in the Championship.

Zenga's assistant, Stefano Cusin, has also left Molineux.

First-team coach Rob Edwards has been placed in temporary charge and will prepare the team for Saturday's game at Blackburn.

A 1-0 home defeat by Leeds on 22 October was Wolves' fourth loss in five league matches, although midfielder Dave Edwards told BBC WM 95.6 after the game that Zenga retained the backing of his playing squad.

Nine Championship clubs appointed new managers before the start of the 2016-17 season, but Zenga's departure from Wolves means only four of them remain in their posts.

Roberto di Matteo, Paul Trollope, Nigel Pearson and Alan Stubbs left Aston Villa, Cardiff, Derby and Rotherham respectively in October.

Analysis

Rob Gurney, BBC WM 95.6

The cut-throat, "success yesterday" culture of football in the modern era is perfectly illustrated here, with Zenga given less than three months to prove himself.

His training methods were clearly popular with the players, but equally some of his personnel decisions were deemed curious.

Integrating a huge number of new players, however technically proficient, was not going to be easy, but owners Fosun have decided that someone else can do better in the pursuit of the boundless riches of the Premier League.

Zenga's passion and commitment was clear. He was often an adversarial interviewee, steadfastly believing that he was right and the inquisitor was wrong.

Ultimately his employers decided he was wrong. And so to the next…
====================
If all of our content were globally available, there wouldn’t be a reason for members to use proxies or “unblockers” to fool our systems into thinking they’re in a different country than they’re actually in. We are making progress in licensing content across the world and, as of last week, now offer the Netflix service in 190 countries, but we have a ways to go before we can offer people the same films and TV series everywhere.

Over time, we anticipate being able to do so. For now, given the historic practice of licensing content by geographic territories, the TV shows and movies we offer differ, to varying degrees, by territory. In the meantime, we will continue to respect and enforce content licensing by geographic location.

Some members use proxies or “unblockers” to access titles available outside their territory. To address this, we employ the same or similar measures other firms do. This technology continues to evolve and we are evolving with it. That means in coming weeks, those using proxies and unblockers will only be able to access the service in the country where they currently are. We are confident this change won’t impact members not using proxies.

We look forward to offering all of our content everywhere and to consumers being able to enjoy all of Netflix without using a proxy. That’s the goal we will keep pushing towards.

--David

David Fullagar is Vice President of Content Delivery Architecture at Netflix.
====================
February 22, 2016 — Ron Chusid

The Democratic Party establishment continues to tilt the nomination battle in Clinton’s favor. First they gave in to her request to limit debates. They helped her out in Iowa by not releasing the popular vote, as has been done in the past, as Sanders was very likely the winner. When they realized that Clinton did not have an advantage over Sanders in fund raising, the DNC helped her out by relaxing the restrictions Obama had imposed on contributions from lobbyists. If this doesn’t work, there are the super delegates.

Most recently there was the Nevada caucus, which was full of shenanigans to help Clinton. The most significant was probably on the part of Harry Reid. John Ralston, a top reporter of Nevada politics, wrote:

Saturday may well be the day that altered the course of the Democratic presidential race, when Hillary Clinton blunted Bernie Sanders’ campaign, when she was forced to work as hard as she ever has for a week (with a little help from a lot of friends) and slingshotted her with new momentum into South Carolina and then Super Tuesday. Nevada may indeed prove to be the day that saved Hillary Clinton’s campaign. But the caucus, which Clinton won by about 5 percentage points, also cemented Prince Harry as a man Machiavelli would have bowed to, a man who with one eye who still sees the field better and is still more dangerous, effective and cunning as any pol the state (the country?) has ever seen. Clinton may not have won Nevada if Reid had not interceded last week when the man feigning neutrality saw what everyone in the Democratic elite saw: Sanders erasing a once mountainous lead and on the verge of perhaps winning Nevada and rendering inoperative the “Hillary is more electable” argument. The story of the Nevada caucus is that a lame-duck senator and a self-neutered union conspired to revive the Clinton campaign in a remarkable bit of backroom maneuvering that helped Madame Secretary crush Sanders in Clark County, the key to winning almost any statewide election. Combined with a Clinton machine, erected last spring and looking invincible, that suddenly had to scrape the rust off its gears and turn out her voters, Caucus Day also was a remarkable story of an indomitable candidate, her nonpareil Nevada staff and a ragtag but committed Sanders operation that made them sweat. But, ultimately, what turned this race was Reid, who clearly came home to find that Clinton’s insurmountable lead was being surmounted. Despite being furious with Team Clinton for its panic-stricken spin that Nevada was as white as Iowa and New Hampshire, undermining Reid’s argument why the state was given early-state status (and, you know, being false, too), the senator decided he would single-handedly save the state for Clinton. In the middle of last week, Reid made a phone call, first reported by The New York Times’ Amy Chozick, to D. Taylor, the head of the parent of the Culinary Union local in Las Vegas. Before that call, the Culinary, facing difficult contract negotiations and seeing no advantage in enmeshing itself in a bloody internecine fight, had declared it was more Swiss than Hispanic. With the Culinary not endorsing and unwilling to even engage in the caucus, turnout at six casino sites on the Las Vegas Strip was forecast at a combined 100 or so. That is, insignificant. “He’s been extremely cooperative,” Reid told Chozick of Taylor. “Probably 100 organizers will be at the caucus sites and in hotels to make sure people know what they’re doing.” But Reid did not stop there. He also called casino executives, sources confirm, with a simple message: “Let your people go.” That is, he wanted to ensure the workers would be allowed time off from work to caucus. No one said no to Prince Harry. Despite their common public neutrality, Taylor and Reid surely believe, as do most Democratic power brokers, that a Sanders nomination would be a disaster. Reid knew that Taylor would get his swarms of organizers to turn out mostly Latino workers, who would likely vote for Clinton. A gamble? Yes. But like going all-in with a straight flush. And it paid off…

This changed the whole narrative of the race. Imagine how different things would be if it was first reported that Sanders won the popular vote in Iowa, he had his landslide victory in New Hampshire, and then had a win in Nevada.

It is still premature to write off Sanders. Clinton won the Nevada caucus by approximately the same margin she won eight years ago, and that certainly did not prevent Obama from winning the nomination. Far less shenanigans can occur in a primary as opposed to a caucus. Plus young voters, who did not turn out as expected in Nevada, might be more willing to cast a vote in a primary as opposed to going through a more difficult caucus session. If nothing else, this might have reinforced the need for everyone to turn out to vote. Sander does also need to improve his vote among Africa Americans, but should do better when more northern states are voting.

Still, there is the danger that many people will vote for the winner without fully considering the candidates, and all the hype of Clinton winning big in Nevada could provide her with momentum. If that is the case, she might be able to thank Harry Reid for the nomination. However, by winning this way, along with her dishonest attacks on Sanders, the Democratic Party is looking far too much like the Republicans, which could greatly suppress turnout for Clinton in the general election.

While the Democratic Party leadership might get away with acting undemocratically in choosing its preferred candidate, the Republicans are in the opposite situation. Donald Trump has the lead despite opposition from the Republican leadership, which is now throwing its support behind Marco Rubio. It sure puts the Democrats in a bad light when they are rigging their nomination battle but the Republicans are leaving it more up to the voters.

Whether the Republicans nominate Trump or Rubio, Sanders has the best shot of handing the Democrats a victory in the general election.
====================
As many as 25,000 web servers infected with Linux malware have been used in the past two years to hit website visitors with two variants of Windows malware.

Security researchers in Europe are urging sysadmins — if they haven't already been notified by their ISP — to check their web servers for the presence of several pieces of Linux malware, including a troublesome rootkit known as Ebury SSH for Linux and Unix.

If admins find the malware, chances are they're a victim of 'Operation Windigo', a cybercrime campaign that targets both Windows users and systems admins that operate support equipment for popular websites.

"There are two kinds of victims here: Windows end-users visiting legitimate websites hosted on compromised servers, and Linux/Unix server operators whose servers were compromised through the large server-side credential stealing network," security researchers at antivirus firm ESET say in its report.

The report is based on joint research between ESET, Germany's CERT-Bund, the Swedish National Infrastructure for Computing, and CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research.

Operation Windigo has several key components, including Cdorked, which came to ESET's attention last year following a spate of Apache web server infections. The Cdorked HTTP backdoor was also portable to Apache's httpd, Nginx and lighttpd, covering the most widely used web servers in the world.

Websites operated by an infected server redirected visitors to compromised landing pages hosting exploit kits, such as the now defunct Blackhole, as well as conducting ad fraud. In September 2013, it was found to be conducting one million redirects per day; however, only a fraction ended up in infections.

Meanwhile, Ebury runs mostly on Linux servers and offers the attacker a root backdoor shell and has the ability to steal SSH credentials as well as send out spam, according to ESET.

ESET noted that the Windigo operation did not use any new vulnerability to exploit Linux or Unix systems, but rather relied solely on stolen credentials.

"There are two typical scenarios where SSH credentials get stolen. The first scenario is when a user successfully logs into an infected server. The second scenario is when a user uses a compromised server to log on any other system," ESET's researchers said.

There's also Calfbot, a Perl-based module designed to send spam from Ebury infected servers. At one point it was caught sending out 35 million spam messages per day.

The number of Ebury infections based on a count of unique IP addresses has fluctuated over the past year between 7,700 in June 2013 to 11,110 in January 2013. In total, the researchers have observed 26,000 Ebury infections since beginning their analysis in May 2013.

The countries with the most infections include the US, Germany, France, Italy and the UK. Cdorked had fewer total infections, amounting to 2,183 over the period.

The two key pieces of Windows malware being served up in drive-by downloads were Win32/Boaxxe.G, a click fraud malware, and Win32/Glubteta.M, a generic proxy for Windows.

Read more on malware
====================
DEARBORN, Mich -- Whether it's fair or not, the public has largely made up its mind about Detroit Lions defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh.

The ultra-talented, ultra-physical Suh has a reputation. It's a reputation that has been established by his peers -- who have twice named him the league's dirtiest player -- and propagated by the league and the media.

Away from the football field, Suh keeps the public at an arm's length. He's an intensely private individual who only allows a few people into his inner circle.

Maybe that's what makes Suh's relationship with Isaac Barchus so unique.

Isaac suffers from a rare auto-inflammatory disease only recently identified as CANDLE Syndrome. The medication required to treat the condition has significantly stunted his growth. At nine years old, he stands just 3-foot-6 and weighs only 40 pounds.

"He's not growing," Isaac's father Steve Barchus said. "He's in a lot of pain much of the time. He's on a lot of medications to keep him stable, a lot of experimental drugs right now. He goes out to the National Institute of Health every month for treatment."

Isaac's idol is the 6-foot-4, 307-pound Suh, dating back to the lineman's time with the University of Nebraska. The pair first met through the Make-a-Wish Foundation.

"Over the years, there have been a lot of people trying to make connections between Isaac and Ndamukong," Steve said. "It just never really worked out with his disease situation and things. When Make-A-Wish came about, that was the first time we had a chance to meet him."

Isaac and his family flew up to Detroit late last year as the guests of Suh and the Lions organization. They attended practice, met with the team and watched the Lions host the Indianapolis Colts from Suh's suite.

"It was awesome," Isaac said. "I didn't know we were going to sit in his (suite) until he told me after practice. It was fun. Even my brother Kyle said it was fun and he doesn't normally watch football with me."

Isaac Barchus prepares to throw the ball at Ndamukong Suh's youth football camp.

That memorable experience could have been the end to a nice story, but Suh has made an effort to stay in contact with Isaac.

In April, the Lions star returned to Omaha, Neb. for a Make-a-Wish fundraiser. He insisted Isaac and his family were in attendance.

"When he got there, he threw around the football with Isaac for thirty minutes or so and talked to him quite a bit," Steve said. "Ndamukong could have very easily said, 'It was good to see you, but now I've got to go out and see everybody else.' But that's not what he did. He said, 'Isaac, it's time for us to go out.' The entire night, he never left my son. That tells you a lot about the man."

The two connected again, earlier this month, when Isaac's parents surprised him for his birthday with a trip to Michigan to participate in Suh's youth football camp. They had to postpone a surgery to install a feeding button just to make the happen.

The opportunities to get together may be few and far between, but Suh has provided Isaac an open line of communication.

"He gave him his cell phone number so they can text back and forth," Steve said. "Isaac has texted him several times and he gets back to him five or ten minutes later. They've just built a really fabulous relationship. I tell people he's Suh's biggest, littlest fan."

It appears Isaac has cracked Suh's exclusive inner circle.

"I enjoy talking to him," Suh said. "He's a great kid. He's someone that's close to me now.
====================
Congressional leaders on both sides of the political aisle from Wisconsin want the U.S. Department of Agriculture to buy cranberries for school lunches and other nutrition programs. Wisconsin cranberry growers would also benefit from the large purchase.

Democratic Senator Tammy Baldwin cites unfavorable market conditions following a record crop. “Despite the climate conditions that they were battling with — the warmest summer on record, and early spring, etc — they had still an abundant crop. But there’s also a significant regional over-supply that made prices drop and they’re really struggling now.”

Baldwin joins fellow lawmakers and cranberry growers across the country in asking USDA to consider a purchase of 50 million pounds of cranberries. The federal agency wants to potentially limit dried cranberries — or craisins — from the school lunch program, saying there is too much added sugar. “We think that’s wrong-headed, and inadvisable, and have weighed-in to make the case for the cranberries growers for why this is a win-win situation for our children and our cranberry growers.”

Cranberries contain significant amounts of antioxidants that might help prevent against heart disease, cancer, urinary tract infections, and other diseases. Baldwin says it’s important to weigh the overall nutrient value of the tart fruit, as compared to fruits that are higher in sugar despite none being added. “If you compare craisins to raisins, you actually have lower sugar and a very nutrient-rich product.”

The cranberry industry argues the added sugar is necessary for the tart berries to be palatable. Wisconsin produces more cranberries than any other state in the nation and produces more than half of the entire world’s supply.

Baldwin recently sent two letters to U.S.D.A. Secretary Tom Vilsack advocating for Wisconsin cranberry growers. The letters were signed by Senators Tammy Baldwin and Ron Johnson; and Representatives Ron Kind, Tom Petri, Reid Ribble, Shawn Duffy, Marc Pocan and Paul Ryan. Governor Scott Walker also signed the letter to the federal government.
====================
Dear Reader, As you can imagine, more people are reading The Jerusalem Post than ever before. Nevertheless, traditional business models are no longer sustainable and high-quality publications, like ours, are being forced to look for new ways to keep going. Unlike many other news organizations, we have not put up a paywall. We want to keep our journalism open and accessible and be able to keep providing you with news and analysis from the frontlines of Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.

Jewish groups have expressed deep concern over the inclusion of the far-right Freedom Party (FPÖ) in the new Austrian coalition, though some are more optimistic than others in light of Chancellor Sebastian Kurz’s vocal rejection of antisemitism.



While the World Jewish Congress voiced “severe concern” over the power given to the Freedom Party – which was founded by former Nazis – the European Jewish Association placed its confidence in assurances made by Kurz that his government would take a zero-tolerance stance on antisemitism.

“We remember Mr. Kurz as a foreign minister sensitive to the values ​​of democracy and a friend of the Jewish people,” said European Jewish Association founder and director Rabbi Menachem Margolin in a statement released on Monday.Noting a rise in opposition to Jewish religious practices in various European countries, as well as an increase in antisemitism and the popularity of extremist parties, Margolin stated: “Jewish ethics denote that a people are never rejected personally, but their behavior and actions are. For this reason, and in light of the statements made by the new government, whom all its members are united in condemning any expression of antisemitism, we congratulate the Austrian chancellor on his unprecedented achievement and his success in founding a stable government.”A spokesperson for the association noted that as well as repeated statements by Kurz rejecting antisemitism, FPÖ leader Heinz-Christian Strache has also said that antisemitism has no place in his party.The association, however, has always urged leaders not to include extremist parties in their governments and expressed concern that other countries would follow suit.“Austria as an EU Member, however, poses a challenge,” Margolin said. “We cannot ignore the fear that in other countries extreme parties will join the government based on the Austrian model without the unambiguous rejection of antisemitism that Austria has provided.”Margolin also called on the new government to join other countries in appointing a special government representative to initiate and coordinate government action to eradicate antisemitism and xenophobia in Austria, “and to clarify that freedom of religion in Austria will remain unchanged.”Ronald Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress – which was among Jewish groups that had called on Kurz not to include the FPÖ in his government – was vocal in his concern over the new coalition.In a statement released Sunday, he congratulated Kurz as “a capable man who has shown very positive attitudes toward Israel and the Jewish people.” He said, however, that it was “severely disquieting that, despite the many real concerns known and expressed about the FPÖ, it will now retain a position of serious influence, giving the Austrian government a real push even further to the Right.”“I hope he [Kurz] will make every effort to ensure that the policies set within his government continue to follow a democratic line and do not dissolve into dangerous populism,” he added.“The FPÖ is a far-right party whose members have in the past expressed xenophobic and antisemitic sentiments. Yet it has now been charged with overseeing the interior, defense, and foreign ministries, three of the most important and powerful fields of government,” Lauder continued. “We have heard promises since the election that FPÖ has softened its policies, but this will remain rhetoric until actual proof of this is shown.”The European Jewish Congress echoed this sentiment. “The FPÖ has a long history of antisemitism and xenophobia and we are concerned about the fact that they will control government ministries in the new Austrian Government,” Dr. Moshe Kantor, president of the EJC, said Monday. “However, we hope that rather than as expected, that the Freedom Party will have an undue influence on the direction of the government led by the People’s Party, the chancellor and his party will be able to discipline the intolerant elements within the FPÖ.“The Freedom Party has tried to correct these elements of its past and ideology and now we need to see concrete steps to show that these are not publicity stunts or they will remain outside of the pale for the Jewish community. The Freedom Party can not use the Jewish community as a fig leaf and must show tolerance and acceptance towards all communities and minorities,” Kantor added.In an email sent after the elections, Oskar Deutsch, president of the Jewish Communities of Austria, wrote that the Jewish community, as well as the World Jewish Congress and the European Jewish Congress, called on Kurz not to include the FPÖ in the next government because “many representatives of the FPÖ,” including Strache, have “used antisemitic codes, made extreme right-wing statements and have promoted hatred and racism,” including during the recent electoral campaign.The letter also stated that several of the party’s candidates have in the past “called for the elimination of legislation against Holocaust denial.”The Board of Deputies of British Jews also expressed “deep concern” on Monday over the coalition agreement.The board’s senior vice president Richard Verber said: “The far Right brought unprecedented misery on Austria and other European countries in the past. It is up to all European countries, including the new government of Austria, to make sure it does not do so again in the future.”“We fully support the position adopted by the Austrian Jewish community, European Jewish Congress and World Jewish Congress of non-engagement with the far Right in Europe,” he added. “While some parties claim to have disavowed their antisemitic and racist roots, actions speak much louder than words. We urge the European Union and other international partners to carefully monitor the situation in the coming weeks and months and respond as appropriate.”The new Austrian government includes five ministers and a vice chancellor affiliated with the FPÖ. To date, Israel has maintained a non-engagement policy with the FPÖ due to its Nazi past and the antisemitic and racist leanings of some members.Herb Keinon contributed to this report.

Join Jerusalem Post Premium Plus now for just $5 and upgrade your experience with an ads-free website and exclusive content. Click here>>




====================
Summer markets are something Toronto does really well, but since it's bone-chillingly cold for the majority of the year, why can't we nail winter markets too? One Toronto organization is changing that.

The Winter Market at Evergreen Brick Works is launching a new street food market alongside its annual Evergreen Market and its Holiday Makers Market in collaboration with Etsy. This means there are now three different outdoors markets in one space. Best of all, they feature campfires and other activities to keep you warm while you shop.



The markets will run from Saturday, December 10 to Friday, December 23 and there will be live entertainment and lots of shopping and eating opportunities with chefs, makers and farmers on hand from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays and 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. on weekends.

The Street Food Market will feature over 20 different food stations from vendors like Burgatory, Eva's Original Chimney's, the Spicy Ethiopian and many more.

The usual weekend farmers market will also be running in the lead up to the holidays.
====================
Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

Dec. 4, 2017, 2:45 AM GMT / Updated Dec. 4, 2017, 1:24 PM GMT By Alex Johnson

Former "Access Hollywood" anchor Billy Bush confirmed again that it was Donald Trump's voice on the famous 2005 video that recorded Trump bragging about crude and degrading behavior toward women.

The New York Times reported last week that Trump has told at least one U.S. senator and other people that he didn't believe the voice on the tape was his — even though he directly confirmed the remarks and apologized for them a month before the presidential election last year.

In an op-ed article Sunday night on the Times' website, Bush — to whom Trump made the remarks — wrote: "He said it. 'Grab 'em by the pussy.' Of course he said it."

Bush added: "Along with Donald Trump and me, there were seven other guys present on the bus at the time, and every single one of us assumed we were listening to a crass standup act. He was performing. Surely, we thought, none of this was real.

"We now know better," wrote Bush, who left NBC's "Today" in October 2016 after he was suspended as the network investigated Bush's laughing and joking with Trump on the tape.

"Access Hollywood" is owned and distributed by NBCUniversal, the parent company of NBC News and MSNBC.

Referring to Trump's reported denials after the election, Bush wrote: "President Trump is currently indulging in some revisionist history."

"This has hit a raw nerve in me," Bush wrote. "I can only imagine how it has reopened the wounds of the women who came forward with their stories about him, and did not receive enough attention. This country is currently trying to reconcile itself to years of power abuse and sexual misconduct. Its leader is wantonly poking the bear."

At the time of the tape, Trump's show, "The Apprentice," was one of NBC's biggest headliners. Bush said in his op-ed that he, and others on the bus, laughed along with Trump out of "self-interest," explaining that the success of his work was dependent upon establishing strong rapports with celebrities — particularly ones such as Trump.

"None of us were guilty of knowingly enabling our future president. But all of us were guilty of sacrificing a bit of ourselves in the name of success," Bush wrote.

Corey Lewandowski, who was Trump's campaign chairman for part of the campaign, and David Bossie, an adviser to the campaign, again confirmed Sunday that the voice on the tape was Trump's in an interview on NBC's "Meet the Press."

"I think it's clear that it is" Trump's voice, Bossie said. "And I don't think he [disputes that]."
====================
SYDNEY (REUTERS) - A jet fuel shortage is causing flight cancellations at New Zealand's Auckland Airport with disruptions expected to continue.

A total of 23 international and domestic flights have been cancelled in the last 24 hours, Auckland Airport corporate affairs manager Simon Lambourne told Reuters by telephone on Sunday (Sept 17).

Fuel companies are rationing oil because a leaking Auckland supply pipeline has been closed for repairs at New Zealand's only refinery at Marsden Point, Whangarei.

Refining NZ, which owns the pipeline, said it could take 10 to 15 days to repair, according to a news report by Radio NZ.

The pipeline is the only source of jet fuel for Auckland Airport. "Airlines operating at Auckland Airport have had their usual fuel allocations reduced. We appreciate this will be inconvenient and will require airlines to take alternative fuelling measures," said Andrew McNaught, a spokesman of Mobil Oil New Zealand Limited, which represents fuel suppliers.

Airlines would have to carry more fuel to enable return flights without refuelling and stop to fuel at other airports on the way to and from Auckland, McNaught said in an emailed statement on Sunday.

Air New Zealand has cancelled some services to consolidate passenger loads, and is diverting Asian and North American long-haul flights to refuel at Pacific and Australian airports, it said in a media statement. Qantas and Jetstar said in an e-mailed statement that they were working to minimise impact on customers and urged people to check their flight status online.

Auckland Airport is New Zealand's largest international airport with passenger numbers of around 18 million a year. The pipeline also supplies petrol and diesel to Auckland, but Energy Minister Judith Collins said it was unlikely that motorists would be inconvenienced as fuel was being trucked in from the refinery, and from a fuel terminal at Mt Maunganui. "The fuel companies are confident that supply of these fuels will be maintained," Collins said in an media release.
====================
Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

Aug. 20, 2017, 3:18 PM GMT / Updated Aug. 20, 2017, 3:40 PM GMT By Kailani Koenig

After the events of the last week, when violent clashes broke out at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, and President Trump faced bipartisan repudiation for his responses, one former member of Republican leadership has warned that if political leaders stay silent on what's happened, “they wear the cap.”

“Over the last seven months, there’s been ample opportunity to disagree with the president on many issues,” said former Republican Congressman J.C. Watts, who was previously the first African-American elected state-wide in Oklahoma, on Sunday’s “Meet The Press.”

“This is not a time for us to be afraid of being tweeted. This is not a time for us to suppress our convictions. I know a lot of those members of Congress and they don’t think like that,” he told host Chuck Todd, referring to white supremacists and the KKK.

“However, Chuck, if they are silent, they wear the cap, either intentionally or unintentionally, they wear the cap saying, ‘we agree with that.’"

First elected to Congress in 1995, Watts served in Republican House leadership as chair of the House Republican Conference from 1999 to 2003.

Although most political leaders released statements this week, no member of current Republican leadership in Congress or any member of the White House senior staff was willing to speak on this Sunday’s "Meet The Press."

But Watts said he wanted to appear because his conscience would not allow him to keep quiet. All presidents, he explained, have what he calls “right now" moments, and Trump faced one of those after the events in Charlottesville, and did not respond in the right way.

“When circumstances like last weekend happen, I think we need moral clarity. A president speaks for himself, for his values and he speaks for those values, of those ‘right now’ moments and he speaks for the values of our country.”

Also on "Meet The Press," Andrew Young, a pioneer of the civil rights movement, called this week “a week of misunderstandings."

He attempted to place fault on economic discontent for why racism is seen in some white Americans.

“We originally sought to redeem the soul of America from the triple evils of race, war and poverty,” Young said of the civil rights era. “Most of the issues that we’re dealing with now are related to poverty. But we still want to put everything in a racial context.”

“The reason I feel uncomfortable condemning the Klan types is – they are almost the poorest of the poor,” he continued. “They are the forgotten Americans. And they have been used and abused and neglected. Instead of giving them affordable health care, they give them black lung jobs, and they’re happy. And that just doesn’t make sense in today’s world. And they see progress in the black community and on television and everywhere and they don’t share it.”

Young is a former United Nations ambassador, former Atlanta mayor, and former congressman from Georgia.

He said one of the goals of their civil rights work was to “lift everybody up together ... so that we would learn to live together as brothers and sisters rather than perish together as fools.”

Trump is facing “a trap,” he said, because the president is still “politicking and thinking nationally, as a nationalist, and so is almost everybody else, including those who are trying to think back and blame it on the Civil War, which was hundreds of years ago.”

Last week, the president's business advisory councils dissolved after multiple corporate leaders resigned. Watts on "Meet The Press" said he was disappointed that members of President Trump's faith council also did not resign or speak out.

But he also indicated he isn’t sure whether President Trump is surrounded by anyone who could rightfully advise him on civil rights issues.

“I don’t know of anyone that’s in his inner circle that would be able to say to him, ‘Mr. President, when it comes to civil rights, when it comes to race issues, let me give you some hindsight, some insight, and some foresight ’ on these issues,” Watts said. “Now, he may have and he just doesn’t listen to them.”

Watts noted that the racial divide in America didn’t suddenly appear when President Trump was elected, or when President Obama was elected. However, since then it has “probably heightened and intensified.”

That said, he added, “we all have obligations to not put salt on the wound.”
====================
Cancer rates in developing nations have climbed sharply in recent years, and now account for 70 percent of cancer mortality worldwide. Early detection has been proven to improve outcomes, but screening approaches such as mammograms and colonoscopy, used in the developed world, are too costly to be implemented in settings with little medical infrastructure.

To address this gap, MIT engineers have developed a simple, cheap, paper test that could improve diagnosis rates and help people get treated earlier. The diagnostic, which works much like a pregnancy test, could reveal within minutes, based on a urine sample, whether a person has cancer. This approach has helped detect infectious diseases, and the new technology allows noncommunicable diseases to be detected using the same strategy.

The technology, developed by MIT professor and Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator Sangeeta Bhatia, relies on nanoparticles that interact with tumor proteins called proteases, each of which can trigger release of hundreds of biomarkers that are then easily detectable in a patient’s urine.

“When we invented this new class of synthetic biomarker, we used a highly specialized instrument to do the analysis,” says Bhatia, the John and Dorothy Wilson Professor of Health Sciences and Technology and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. “For the developing world, we thought it would be exciting to adapt it instead to a paper test that could be performed on unprocessed samples in a rural setting, without the need for any specialized equipment. The simple readout could even be transmitted to a remote caregiver by a picture on a mobile phone.”

Bhatia, who is also a member of MIT’s Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research and Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, is the senior author of a paper describing the particles in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences the week of Feb. 24. The paper’s lead authors are graduate student Andrew Warren, postdoc Gabriel Kwong, and former postdoc David Wood.

Amplifying cancer signals

In 2012, Bhatia and colleagues introduced the concept of a synthetic biomarker technology to amplify signals from tumor proteins that would be hard to detect on their own. These proteins, known as matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), help cancer cells escape their original locations by cutting through proteins of the extracellular matrix, which normally holds cells in place.

The MIT nanoparticles are coated with peptides (short protein fragments) targeted by different MMPs. These particles congregate at tumor sites, where MMPs cleave hundreds of peptides, which accumulate in the kidneys and are excreted in the urine.

In the original version of the technology, these peptides were detected using an instrument called a mass spectrometer, which analyzes the molecular makeup of a sample. However, these instruments are not readily available in the developing world, so the researchers adapted the particles so they could be analyzed on paper, using an approach known as a lateral flow assay — the same technology used in pregnancy tests.

To create the test strips, the researchers first coated nitrocellulose paper with antibodies that can capture the peptides. Once the peptides are captured, they flow along the strip and are exposed to several invisible test lines made of other antibodies specific to different tags attached to the peptides. If one of these lines becomes visible, it means the target peptide is present in the sample. The technology can also easily be modified to detect multiple types of peptides released by different types or stages of disease.

“This is a clever and inspired technology to develop new exogenous compounds that can detect clinical conditions with aberrantly high protease concentrations,” says Samuel Sia, an associate professor of biological engineering at Columbia University who was not involved in the research. “Extending this technology to detection by strip tests is a big leap forward in bringing its use to outpatient clinics and decentralized health settings.”

In tests in mice, the researchers were able to accurately identify colon tumors, as well as blood clots. Bhatia says these tests represent the first step toward a diagnostic device that could someday be useful in human patients.

“This is a new idea — to create an excreted biomarker instead of relying on what the body gives you,” she says. “To prove this approach is really going to be a useful diagnostic, the next step is to test it in patient populations.”

Developing diagnostics

To help make that happen, the research team recently won a grant from MIT’s Deshpande Center for Technological Innovation to develop a business plan for a startup that could work on commercializing the technology and performing clinical trials.

Bhatia says the technology would likely first be applied to high-risk populations, such as people who have had cancer previously, or had a family member with the disease. Eventually, she would like to see it used for early detection throughout developing nations.

Such technology might also prove useful in the United States, and other countries where more advanced diagnostics are available, as a simple and inexpensive alternative to imaging. “I think it would be great to bring it back to this setting, where point-of-care, image-free cancer detection, whether it’s in your home or in a pharmacy clinic, could really be transformative,” Bhatia says.

With the current version of the technology, patients would first receive an injection of the nanoparticles, then urinate onto the paper test strip. To make the process more convenient, the researchers are now working on a nanoparticle formulation that could be implanted under the skin for longer-term monitoring.

The team is also working to identify signatures of MMPs that could be exploited as biomarkers for other types of cancer, as well as for tumors that have metastasized.

The research was funded by a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, a Mazumdar-Shaw International Oncology Fellowship, the Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award from the National Institutes of Health, the Burroughs Wellcome Fund, the National Cancer Institute, and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
====================
4 Gallery: Lincoln High School mural

CLEVELAND, Ohio -- A massive mural that graced Cleveland's long-gone Lincoln High School hasn't seen the light of day in 35 years.

Two alumni plan to change that.

The quest to resurrect Clevelander William A. Krusoe's "The Spirit of Education" began in 2004, as graduates Janice Lukas and Robert Pearl reminisced about the iconic 1939 oil-on-canvas mural commissioned as part of President Roosevelt's Works Project Administration.

The full-color mural contains interwoven scenes of athletes, artists, scientists, educators and others across a vertical canvas about half the size of a tennis court.

The Class of 1966 lockermates wondered what happened to the mural that filled the school's foyer for four decades until Lincoln was razed in 1977. Pearl and Lukas made a pact to find out.

"Both of us agreed that it would be an atrocity if no one ever got to see something as magnificent as that mural again," Pearl said.

They'd heard a story that before the 3001 Scranton Road building was demolished, Cleveland school officials removed the mural, rolled it up and put it in a storage annex.

Lukas and Pearl assumed that tracking down such a massive piece would be easy. But their sleuthing was stonewalled by the school district.

"They didn't want to talk to us," Pearl said.

Pearl and Lukas canvassed for clues at area schools, universities and libraries. They even sent inquiries to Mayor Frank Jackson, Congressman Dennis Kucinich and former senator George Voinovich.

Nobody helped.

"I was hot-potatoed," Lukas said, adding that each person or institution referred her to another.

It wasn't until a call to Cleveland's Intermuseum Conservation Association last year that Pearl and Lukas gained ground.

The story was true. The district did have the mural and was looking to transfer the artwork to ICA for assessment and possible rehab.

Pearl and Lukas were overjoyed, but sobered when they learned it could cost up to $150,000 to restore.

The pair must raise $3,000 just for the nonprofit association to evaluate the giant work. They have raised $500 so far.

"The Spirit of Education" is now rolled into three 12-foot-long sections. A bear hug would barely wrap around each of the tightly-coiled columns. Unrolling the mural would be a task unto itself.

"It looks like this is the biggest WPA mural we're going to end up tangling with," said Heather Galloway, a paintings conservator with ICA.

Toxic residue left from a lead adhesive used to hang the canvases will also make the mural difficult to handle, Galloway said.

Still, she thinks restoring the artwork is worth the effort.

"This is from a very historic period in U.S. history, and the art reflects that," Galloway said. "It's from one of the few periods in the U.S. where public money went to support art. The art was meant to inspire the people."

The mural's restoration will not be government funded, so Pearl and Lukas hope the art inspires the public to donate money to the project.

ICA estimates a complete restoration will cost between $75,000 and $150,000.

Pearl and Lukas hope to see the restored work on display at a large venue such as Cleveland State University, Cleveland Clinic or Medical Mart.

"We just want to make sure it stays in Cleveland," Pearl said.

For more information about donating, contact ICA at 216-658-8700.

Follow Brandon Blackwell on Twitter @blackwelltweets
====================
As expected, Apple's new 4-inch iPhone will be powered by an A9 processor, according to a new report from Bloomberg. The report confirms 9to5Mac's reporting from last month on the phone currently dubbed the iPhone 5SE. The new iPhone is expected to resemble the outgoing iPhone 5S, alongside beefed up internals like NFC for Apple Pay, and Live Photos, but is not expected to have a 3D Touch display.

Bloomberg is also reporting that a new iPad — widely expected to be the iPad Air 3 — will come with Apple's A9X processor, which is currently only available in the iPad Pro. Alongside the processor upgrade, the iPad Air 3 will reportedly support the Apple Pencil, and feature the Smart Connector to support keyboards and other peripherals. Apple is expected to hold an event on March 15th to announce the products, and begin selling the devices on March 18th.
====================
The mosques today, particularly in the western world are expected to provide a variety of services other than just space for daily Salah (prayers). This is because the only congregational hub for Muslims in a non-muslim country is the mosque. Therefore Mosques are expected to cater not only for religious services but also at times social events within the Muslim community.

Purpose built mosques are far a few between in the western world, particularly in Europe. The older mosques are mainly converted residential buildings or vacated churches. Many a times even the direction of the Qibla is settled by making changes to the inside space i.e. adjusting rows diagonally or at an angle to the walls.

As mosques are not purpose built, many other facilities also cannot be provided. This includes parking space, social event space, separate ablution facilities for women etc. For this purpose, more and more Muslims are increasingly looking towards shifting their mosques to a purpose built facility.

As Mosque development is generally a community initiative, this article seeks to highlight the role of a modern day mosque. This will help the community to plan the mosque and in turn better manage community expectations.

There are five key roles of a Modern day mosque:

Day to Day Services

Special Services

Social Events

Outreach Program

Youth Program

Day to Day Services

The five daily prayers and Weekly (Jumma) prayer is the core service of the mosque. The prayers timings vary with seasons and can becomes clustered in a short time frame during winters. Therefore this service itself require a full-time Imam. The time between the prayers can be utilized to teach Quran to the children. For larger communities, there is also a need for frequent burial prayers and wedding ceremonies.

Special Services

Muslims often require advice on theological issues as well as issues pertaining to everyday life, upbringing of children, mediation, social and domestic conduct etc. For these concerns, they look up to a religious leader to provide them guidance and sound advice in discretion. Therefore an Imam who are specially trained in understanding the needs of community and providing counselling should be appointed in addition to Imam reserved for leading prayers.

Social Events

Like every other community, there is often a need for holding social events as well socio-religious events (Valima, Aqiaqa etc) events in the Muslim community.

Although mosques do have large prayer rooms but its often impractical to host a social event in the very space. Furthermore many Muslims are not comfortable with prayer hall being used for any other purpose than prayers. Therefore a separate hall can serve the purpose of holding wedding receptions, Aqiqa gatherings or any other charity events. This separate community hall can also be used for training, seminars and workshops.

Outreach Work

One of the most important role of a modern mosque that is often ignored is its outreach work. Religious services often need to be provided on sites out with the mosque. For examples, Jumma (Friday) prayers needs to be lead for Muslim inmates in Jails, hospitals or detention centres. Furthermore, particularly in the west, opinions for media are required in the wake of any event that effects the community. Imams that are media savvy, are needed not only to responsibly roll out statements but also manage noticeboards and social media presence of the mosque.

There is often a need to train wider community in understanding Islam and clarifying ambiguities. For this reason “Open days” and workshops should be arranged.

Youth Programs

One of the biggest problems facing the Muslim community is youth bewilderment. In these incredibly stimulating times, with their unfermented perfectionist ideas, Muslim youth can often feel marginalized and isolated. It is getting more important than ever to re-engage with them. The mosque can create an environment that is conducive for youth congregation. Mosques can get them involved in charity work. Provide them an identity and sense of belonging and a space where they can freely discuss and debate their ideas. The provision of space will go a long way in keeping them off not only illegal activities (like drugs) but also help in addressing the bigger issue of youth radicalization.

In light of these activities it has been recommended that at least three Imams for each mosque that has over 100 attendees should be appointed. Sheikh Aamir Jamil opines “The work load on mosques with a single Imam is unbearably high. As a result Mosques are losing their efficacy in managing community expectations.” The sheikh is of the opinion that for every mosque there should be an Imam who is good at managing outreach work and another Imam who can provide theological advice to the community particularly on domestic issues.

Mosques therefore not only need to develop more space but also human resource to match it.

This article was written in consultation with Sheikh Aamir Jamil.
====================
Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

July 15, 2013, 4:07 PM GMT By John W. Schoen

When it comes to America's dilapidated infrastructure, political spectacle is taking precedence over common sense, and drivers and businesses are suffering.

Politicians are pushing to use scarce public funds to build new bridges, experts say, instead of spending that money on repairing and maintaining existing structures.

"It's a lot harder to cut a ribbon on a pothole repair project," said Roger Millar, a vice president at Smart Growth America, an advocacy group that focuses on sustainable development.

America's bridges, once a symbol of the nation's engineering and construction prowess, are crumbling. Every day, millions of Americans drive over thousands of bridges that the government says are in lousy shape. In recent years, two have already collapsed, causing deaths, slowing transport and harming local businesses.

Despite the recent infusion of $26 billion in federal "stimulus" spending, the problem is expected to worsen as tens of thousands of bridges built nearly 50 years ago for the national Interstate highway system reach the end of their useful life.



"When you look at how big the backlog is and how big that spending gap is, the entire stimulus package was less than what it would require to fill a single year's funding gap for just maintenance," said Jaime Rall, transportation senior policy specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Shortchanging maintenance and replacement can bring an even higher economic and human toll. That reality was brought into sharper focus following the 2007 collapse of the I-35 Mississippi River bridge in Minneapolis that killed 13 people and injured 145. The failure of the eight-lane, 1960s-era steel truss arch bridge was blamed on a design flaw that meant that a failure of a single structural element would bring down the entire bridge.

Some 18,000 other U.S. bridges share a similar "fracture critical" design, including the 1950s-vintage I-5 Skagit River bridge in Washington state that that collapsed in May after a truss was hit by an over-height truck. Though the truck and two other vehicles with three people fell into the river, there were no fatalities.

Every day, more than 200 million cars, trucks and buses cross a deficient bridge, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers.

Some states may be making the problem even worse by diverting scarce funds to build new bridges and roadways before replacing or repairing those that have outlived their useful lives, according to a spending analysis by Smart Growth America.

The range of spending choices can be seen in ways that states managed the one-time shot in the arm from the 2009 federal stimulus package that helped states pay for tens of billions of dollars of "shovel ready" infrastructure projects.

Of the $26 billion in transportation-related funds, a third went to building new roads and bridges, according to Smart Growth America's analysis. Eleven states spent more than half of their stimulus allocation on new capacity. In five of those states—Virginia, Louisiana, Texas, Hawaii and Arkansas—more than half of their existing highway infrastructure needs repair.

"You can look at a state like Arkansas that spent its money on system expansion while at the same what they had was falling apart," said Millar. "Not the smartest expenditure of dollars."

But economic growth and development continue to strain existing capacity and create demand expanding the network of roads and bridges that feed that growth.

In northwest Arkansas, for example, continued growth and hiring by large employers like Wal-Mart, Tyson Foods and truck carrier J.B. Hunt has helped keep the jobless rate well below the national average.

"During the recession, that part of the state continued to grow and prosper, and that's where we're seeing some tremendous capacity issues on our road program," said Randy Ort, a spokesman for the Arkansas state Highway and Transportation Department.

That growth brought increased population growth and higher volumes of freight shipments. Maintaining that growth meant extending and widening Interstate 540 and replacing bridges and overpasses, some of which weren't deficient.

That kind of new construction further raises costs in two ways, said Millar. First, it creates that many more miles of highway and bridge to maintain.

"Adding capacity to solve a congestion problem is like buying a bigger pair of pants to solve a weight problem," said Millar. "You're not solving the problem you're accommodating the problem."

Building new roads and bridges also diverts money from relatively cheap maintenance projects, which further raises the longer term cost of repair or replacement.

A worker looks at the collapsed portion of the Interstate 5 bridge at the Skagit River Friday, May 24, 2013, in Mount Vernon, Wash. Elaine Thompson / AP

"It's a significantly better investment to spend money on a bridge that's in good condition now than to have to repair it when it becomes structurally deficient," said Steve Davis, a spokesman for Transportation for America, a coalition of transportation and land use policy groups. "It's sort of like staying ahead of things with your car. You're better off keeping up with oil changes than waiting until your engine seizes up."

The dearth of funding to fix the problem makes the choices that much harder for transportation officials. The recent stimulus highway spending was a drop in the bucket compared to the total annual highway spending of about $160 billion a year, about a quarter of which comes from the federal government.

But because federal officials don't track how much money state and local governments devote to bridge repair and replacement, it's hard to know how well the money is being spent, according to a report last month by the Government Accountability Office.

"(The) lack of comprehensive information on state and local spending makes it impossible to determine the impact of the federal investment on bridges," the report concluded.

The scope of the problem, however, is not hard to measure. Of the more than 600,000 bridges monitored by the Transportation Department, more than a quarter were built in the 15 years following the establishment of the Interstate Highway system in 1956. Every year, roughly 10,000 of those bridges reach the end of their 50-year lifespan.

As the need for repair and replacement widens, though, available funding is getting squeezed.

Just to keep the system from further falling apart would require another $14 billion in federal spending per year, according to a recent CBO report. Needed improvements would cost another $50 billion, the CBO said.

But even without additional spending, the Highway Trust Fund is expected to go broke by 2015, in part because the federal 18.4-cent a gallon gasoline tax hasn't been raised in 20 years. Gasoline taxes make up about 92 percent of federal highway funding and about 40 percent of state funding. But state gas tax rates vary widely – from just eight cents a gallon in Alaska to 50.6 cents in New York.

Even as the federal gas tax has remained flat, revenues have been shrinking because overall gasoline consumption has been falling since 2007. As the average mileage of the cars and trucks on the road continues to rise, those gas tax receipts will continue to fall.

To cover projected federal highway spending, CBO estimates the gas tax would have to be raised by 10 cents a gallon. That's not a campaign promise likely to win support from many voters.

Since 2008, Congress has kept the trust fund afloat by tapping $41 billion in other taxes; another $12.6 billion has been authorized for 2014. Given the ongoing federal budget squeeze, those transfers aren't sustainable, CBO said.

State funding for bridge repair and replacement is also coming up short.

Since the Great Recession shrank income and property taxes, states have been scrambling to balance the books at a time when few voters are in the mood for tax increases. That's left many transportation departments fending off efforts to tap their revenues to fund a variety of non-transportation needs.

"Instead of trying to raise the taxes they're just trying to protect the money that's already there," said Rall.

—By CNBC's John W. Schoen. Follow him on Twitter @johnwschoen.

More business news:

Follow NBCNews.com business on Twitter and Facebook
====================
General Electric has been a piston of the American economic engine for 125 years. It pioneered the light bulb and the jet engine. It survived the Great Depression, the dot-com crash and the 2008 financial meltdown.

But now GE faces a different kind of challenge -- a nightmare cash crunch that could take years to recover from. GE (GE) has been left in turmoil by years of questionable deal-making, needless complexity and murky accounting.

These problems were self-inflicted. And they are startling because they happened not just at an icon of American business but under two legendary CEOs, Jack Welch and Jeff Immelt.

For GE's 300,000 employees and millions of shareholders, the consequences have been painful. More than $100 billion in market value has vanished from GE since November 2016, more than the combined values of Ford (F), Delta (DAL) and UnitedContinental (UAL). GE, still a staple in investment portfolios, has plummeted 42% this year.

The stock crashed to a six-year low last week after the company admitted it can no longer afford the dividend that once symbolized its stability. It's only the second time since the Great Depression that GE has cut the dividend.

John Flannery, the CEO brought in to clean up the mess, acknowledged that fixing GE will take time and require selling off another chunk of its shrinking empire.

This mainstay of corporate America is experiencing a low point even as the rest of the economy surges.

"When many people think of GE, they think of America," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE. "It's hard for them to understand how this thing fell apart so quickly."

Related: GE is broken. Fixing it will be long and difficult

GE's shopping spree gone bad

Welch, the CEO from 1981 to 2001, built GE into a super-conglomerate that owned a major bank and NBC. But that business model has since been cast aside as overly complex, and in retrospect, it's clear that Welch's shopping spree masked problems.

Those problems blew up when he left. The most obvious example is GE Capital, the finance company that dealt GE a near-fatal blow during the 2008 crisis.

"Immelt inherited a company from Jack Welch that had brushed a lot of issues under the rug," Inch said.

Martin Sankey, a senior research analyst at Neuberger Berman who has been following GE closely since 1981, said Welch made his share of mistakes with deals and operations, "some of which showed up on his watch and others showed up later."

Not long ago, the criticism of Welch would have been unthinkable. He was a larger-than-life force whom Fortune named "manager of the century" in 1999. That aura has since been punctured.

Welch, who declined to comment for this story, still appears frequently on CNBC. He recently launched an online MBA program at Strayer University, named after himself.

Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb

'Train wreck'

One of the chief responsibilities of the CEO is deciding where to deploy cash. After Immelt took over from Welch, GE often picked the wrong places at the wrong times.

Those poor decisions about mergers and acquisitions have contributed to the cash crunch: This giant company no longer generates enough money to pay for investments in the business and dividends for shareholders. The crunch has been years in the making, but only recently has Wall Street come to grips with how bad it is.

Consider GE's $9.5 billion acquisition of Alstom's power business, which makes coal-fueled turbines used by power plants. The 2015 transaction was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.

For GE, the deal represented a doubling down on fossil fuels, even as renewable sources of energy, like solar, were gaining popularity. Not surprisingly, GE admitted this week that Alstom has been a major disappointment, and that its power business is in shambles.

"If we could go back in the time machine today, we would pay a substantially lower price than we did," Flannery said on CNBC.

Inch called the Alstom deal a "disaster" that supports GE's reputation for "buying high and selling low."

Elsewhere, he said GE overpaid for many of its oil-and-gas properties, forcing it to merge those businesses last year with Baker Hughes (BHGE), a major provider of services and equipment for oil drilling. GE said this week it's already exploring ways to exit its majority stake in Baker Hughes.

GE has had an "abysmal M&A history," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report.

Much of it occurred under Immelt, who himself once had a reputation as a world-class CEO. He was named one of the "world's best CEOs" by Barron's three times and sat on CEO councils under both President Trump and former President Barack Obama.

Yet GE was the worst-performing stock in the Dow during Immelt's 16-year reign. It was an original member of the venerable stock average. Now there's talk of kicking GE out of the Dow altogether.

Davis described Immelt's tenure was a "train wreck" and said his exit this year "came about 10 years too late."

Related: Will GE get kicked out of the Dow?

Immelt is gone now, and GE is shedding businesses -- but at a time when many of those businesses are at a low point. For instance, the company has put its century-old railroad business up for sale. But Flannery has warned that rail faces a "protracted slowdown" in North America, suggesting that buyers will not exactly be lining up.

Likewise, GE is looking to unload its business that makes light bulbs -- the product that, perhaps more than any other, symbolizes the company's history of innovation. Light bulb sales soared between 2007 and 2014, thanks to the LED lighting that GE helped to invent. The problem is that LED bulbs last for decades, so sales have tumbled.

Aswath Damodaran, a finance professor at the Stern School of Business, blamed Immelt for not moving more quickly and aggressively to shrink a maturing GE.

"Accept the fact you're aging. Don't fight it with acquisitions," said Damodaran. "That's like a 75-year-old doing a face lift. You can't look good for long because gravity will work its magic sooner or later."

Immelt declined to comment.

'Too proud' to let go of GE Capital

Consider GE Capital, which was built into a behemoth by Welch and Immelt through a series of acquisitions. It was essentially a too-big-to-fail bank, inside a company that makes power plants and MRI machines.

GE Capital became a huge liability during the financial crisis. It got so bad that GE couldn't borrow money when the overnight lending market vanished, forcing it to get an emergency investment from Warren Buffett and other investors.

Pankaj Patel, who worked at GE during the 1990s, defended GE management by arguing the company was a victim of a once-in-a-generation meltdown.

"They got caught in the middle of the financial crisis," said Patel.

Others argue GE should have sold GE Capital long before it got so big that it endangered the rest of the company.

"They were too proud. They couldn't let it go. By the time they spun off GE Capital, it was already damaged and nobody would give them a fair price," Damodaran said.

Related: GE cuts dividend for 2nd time since Great Depression

'Murky' accounting

GE has long been criticized for using cloudy accounting and confusing reporting metrics that made it difficult for investors to determine the company's true health.

The SEC charged GE with accounting fraud in 2009, alleging the company used "overly aggressive accounting" to make false and misleading statements to investors. GE agreed to pay $50 million to settle the charges, though the company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.

GE's accounting remains controversial. The Wall Street Journal published a recent series highlighting how the company's "murky" accounting makes it hard to understand its cash flow.

Take GE's "industrial CFOA," which is supposed to gauge free cash flow. But a footnote explains this measure excludes deal taxes as well as pension plan funding, a huge cost at GE.

"It's gone on for many years," said Deutsche Bank's Inch. "The important numbers are buried. They don't want people to understand."

Acknowledging that these issues have hurt GE, Flannery promised last week to simplify reporting and increase transparency. However, GE stopped short of abandoning customized metrics altogether.

Flannery has downplayed accounting concerns, telling CNBC, "There is no accounting issue. ... No one's been had."

GE declined further comment.

Accounting scrutiny is a headache GE does not need. Flannery already faces what he calls a "heavy lift" turning around this great company. He expressed optimism about that challenge, citing GE's long history of remaking itself.

For this next chapter in the GE story, the company is planning to shrink itself by selling its transportation, light bulb and other businesses.

The goal is to make the GE of the future more nimble, easier to operate and squarely focused on its core strengths: health care, power and aviation. Flannery has also vowed to improve GE's culture by making it more open and transparent. And to do a better job of allocating GE's limited resources.

The dream is to make GE a modern industrial leader that is once again on a sustainable financial path.

"This is the opportunity, really of a lifetime, to reinvent an iconic company," Flannery said.
====================
Keywords: Donald Trump, critical theory, capitalism, political economy, Franz L. Neumann, Theodor W. Adorno, Erich Fromm, authoritarian statism, state theory, ideology critique, USA, United States politics, 2016 US presidential election

Abstract

This paper analyses economic power, state power and ideological power in the age of Donald Trump with the help of critical theory. It applies the critical theory approaches of thinkers such as Franz Neumann, Theodor W. Adorno and Erich Fromm. It analyses changes of US capitalism that have together with political anxiety and demagoguery brought about the rise of Donald Trump. This article draws attention to the importance of state theory for understanding Trump and the changes of politics that his rule may bring about. It is in this context important to see the complexity of the state, including the dynamic relationship between the state and the economy, the state and citizens, intra-state relations, inter-state relations, semiotic representations of and by the state, and ideology. Trumpism and its potential impacts are theorised along these dimensions. The ideology of Trump (Trumpology) has played an important role not just in his business and brand strategies, but also in his political rise. The (pseudo-)critical mainstream media have helped making Trump and Trumpology by providing platforms for populist spectacles that sell as news and attract audiences. By Trump making news in the media, the media make Trump. An empirical analysis of Trump’s rhetoric and the elimination discourses in his NBC show The Apprentice underpins the analysis of Trumpology. The combination of Trump’s actual power and Trump as spectacle, showman and brand makes his government’s concrete policies fairly unpredictable. An important question that arises is what social scientists’ role should be in the conjuncture that the world is experiencing.

See also the related blog post "How The Frankfurt School Helps Us To Understand Donald Trump’s Twitter Populism"

http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/christian-fuchs1/how-the-frankfurt-school-_b_14156190.html?utm_hp_ref=uk-donald-trump

The German translation of this shorter piece was published in Der Falter 5/2017: 21-23.




====================
Police have charged a pilot who was found unconscious in the cockpit prior to his plane’s departure from Calgary International Airport Saturday.

Gate crew and crew aboard the flight noticed that the 37-year-old was behaving oddly, and he then became unconscious in the cockpit.

It happened just before 7 a.m. when the Sunwing Airlines pilot boarded an aircraft scheduled to fly to Regina, with a final destination of Cancun, Mexico.

The 737 800 Series aircraft had 99 passengers aboard with six flight crew, including the pilot.

WATCH: Calgary police charge Sunwing Airlines pilot with being drunk before takeoff. Reid Fiest reports.

Story continues below

The pilot, a Slovakian national in Canada on a work visa, was escorted from the aircraft and taken into custody by police.

Police said initial tests indicated the pilot was severely impaired by alcohol, and three times over the legal limit.

“We tested him approximately two hours after we took him into custody and he still blew at that extreme level. So I can’t tell you when he had his last drink but he was pretty high. So it probably wasn’t too long before we took him into custody is my guess,” Calgary Police Sgt. Paul Stacey said.

“Because he has as much alcohol in his system as he does, they’re going to wait until he sobers up somewhat before he goes before a Justice of the Peace.”

Police said the gate crew initially notified the co-pilot about their concerns, that the pilot was showing signs of impairment.

“They (the co-pilot) found him slumped over in the seat, in the pilot seat. He was the captain of the airline,” Stacey said.

Miroslav Gronych has been charged with the following:

Having care and control of an aircraft while impaired

Having care and control of an aircraft while having a blood alcohol level over .08 (or exceeding 80 mgs of alcohol per 100mL of blood)

“It had all the potential for a disaster but I’ll tell you this much, the likelihood of a pilot on a major airline like this actually being able to take off when they’re impaired like that is pretty slim because there’s a lot of checks and balances. There’s the other flight crew, there’s the gate crew, everybody is about safety. So in this case it’s all on that pilot,” Sgt. Stacey said.

Story continues below

Sunwing Airlines confirmed the pilot’s scheduled flight assignment as Sunwing flight 595.

The gate agents, first officer and crew “determined that the Captain was unfit to fly and reported this accordingly,” Sunwing Airlines said in a statement.

“We are very appreciative of our crew’s diligence in handling this very unfortunate matter in accordance with procedures. We were able to secure a new captain and are pleased to report that our customers are now en route to their destination after experiencing a minimal delay. We are very apologetic for any upset that this has caused and would like to assure our customers that safety remains our utmost priority,” Jacqueline Grossman, from Sunwing, stated.

Sunwing said the flight incurred a one hour and 53 minute delay before leaving Calgary at 8:53 a.m. local time, destined for Cancun via Regina.

“Transport Canada has been notified and they’re conducting their own investigation with civil aviation. My understanding is, there’s potential for a number of other charges within their jurisdiction,” Stacey said. “We’re always talking about impaired driving with motor vehicles, this is a new one and obviously this one had a very significant potential to cause great harm had the pilot actually been allowed to fly this plane.”

Story continues below

Phyl Durdey, CEO at Flightline Training Services in Canada, said he was shocked to hear how drunk the pilot allegedly was arriving for his shift.

“It was amazing to see that this was still going on in this industry. So it took me by a bit of surprise and being over the limit that he was, I’m surprised he even got in the cockpit,” Durdey said. “The rules in place are that it’s eight hours from bottle to throttle, those are Transport Canada regulations, but there’s also a stipulation in there that says you cannot operate an aircraft if you’re under any influence of drugs or alcohol.”

Sunwing Airlines has gone even further on the side of safety and instituted a 12-hour bottle to throttle rule.
====================
Swedish startup Safello closes funding round with $300K in investments

Swedish bitcoin exchange and services provider Safello has closed a recent round of funding exceeding their goal of $293K USD and raising a total of $299,987 USD from 96 investors. The funding round shines a light on what to expect next from the startup, which has big aspirations to shakeup the bitcoin space.

As already reported, Safello was raising funds to help bring identity to their platform. Safello’s pitch is that they are “building the bank of the future on top of blockchain technology.” Safello is attempting to reinvent their service by adding identity as a layer on top of the bitcoin blockchain.

The Safello AppStore

As part of the funding round, Safello says that they are going to be making huge changes to their platform in order to reach their ultimate goal. Moving beyond being a bitcoin exchange (acting as a brokerage), Safello is going to be phasing out their SaaS model and starting an AppStore model.

The AppStore will be a revenue sharing model with third-party services in order to have a complete and robust platform for their new “transaction browser.” The transaction browser will provide a transaction stream of information where the user will receive recommendations based on their purchase history. Users that will be making a payment will see it in their home currency of sterling, the recipient sees it in euros, but the underlying transaction goes through bitcoin. On top of the transaction browser and AppStore will sit APIs for developers to tap into the data.

A key component of the success of this model will be social integration. By adding identity as a second layer it will create an easier to understand experience that more people are accustomed to; think of Facebook and Spotify but for your bitcoin wallet.

The Safello Wallet

Safello is also working on a native wallet application as part of their suite of services. In addition to supporting bitcoin, the Safello wallet includes plans to launch support for ethereum as well.

Safello CEO and founder Frank Schuil said about the wallet,

“We are not planning to offer just one web wallet, we want to be an aggregator of 3rd party wallets and as such never hold any coins ourselves. Our first integration will be Bitgo where the customer stays in full control. However, we would like at one point to integrate an insured wallet from a 3rd party. We’ve applied a similar approach to our brokerage model where we’re not holding any coins.”

Later this year Safello plans to hire more staff and do a Series A strategic funding round. Some key investors already have been Erik Voorhees of Shapeshift, Nicolas Cary of Blockchain, entrepreneur and investor Roger Ver, Barry Silbert of DCG, and others.
====================
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), left, speaks during a stop of the 'Give America a Raise' bus tour, with fellow lawmakers House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), from right, and Rep. George Miller (D-CA), at the U.S. Capitol Building on April 3, 2014 in Washington, DC. (Photo: T.J. Kirkpatrick Getty Images)

WASHINGTON (AP) — A Senate Democratic bill gradually increasing the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour would require private businesses to spend $15 billion more in salaries when it takes full effect in 2017, the Congressional Budget Office estimated Thursday.

The nonpartisan budget office's estimate could be used as ammunition by Republicans, who largely oppose the measure because they say it would drive up business costs.

But it could also be beneficial to Democrats because the private sector spent $5.4 trillion on wages in 2012, according to the most recent data from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That means the increased pay would boost employers' wage costs by just 0.003 percent, or about one-third of a penny for every dollar spent on salaries.

The Senate is expected to begin debating the election-year Democratic measure when lawmakers return from a spring recess in two weeks. Republicans seem likely to muster enough votes to block it, and there is no evidence yet that Democrats are willing to broker a compromise.

The minimum wage is currently $7.25 hourly. The bill by Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, would increase the minimum in three steps, reaching $10.10 two-and-a-half years after the bill becomes law.

The budget office also estimated that the measure would force state and local governments to pay workers $1 billion more in 2017 than they would otherwise be required. Those governments paid $840 billion in salaries in 2012, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

The federal government would incur just $2 million in added wage costs for the entire decade ending in 2024. That's because it has fewer than 4,000 workers earning less than $10.10 hourly, the budget office said.

The federal government spent $207 billion in wages in 2012, according to the labor statistics bureau.

But the Democratic bill would cost the government $5 billion in lost revenue over the coming decade. In an effort to win votes from moderate Democrats and perhaps Republicans, Harkin's measure would give bigger tax breaks to some smaller businesses that purchase equipment over the next three years.

In February, the budget office estimated that the Democratic bill would mean $31 billion in higher earnings for low-paid workers in 2016.

That figure was higher in part because it included workers not directly covered by the minimum wage law and others earning over $10.10 who analysts believed would get raises as employers adjust their pay scales upward.

The budget office has also estimated that the measure would raise earnings for about 16.5 million workers earning under $10.10, but cost about 500,000 others their jobs as employers adjust to higher costs.

Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/QhCQVt
====================
A well-rounded star

Scientists measure the shape of Kepler 11145123 with unprecedented precision

Stars are not perfect spheres. While they rotate, they become flat due to the centrifugal force. A team of researchers around Laurent Gizon from the Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research and the University of Göttingen has now succeeded in measuring the oblateness of a slowly rotating star with unprecedented precision. The researchers have determined stellar oblateness using asteroseismology – the study of the oscillations of stars. The technique is applied to a star 5000 light years away from Earth and revealed that the difference between the equatorial and polar radii of the star is only 3 kilometers – a number that is astonishing small compared to the star’s mean radius of 1.5 million kilometers; which means that the gas sphere is astonishingly round.

The star Kepler 11145123 is the roundest natural object ever measured in the universe. Stellar oscillations imply a difference in radius between the equator and the poles of only 3 km. This star is significantly more round than the Sun. © Illustration: Mark A. Garlick The star Kepler 11145123 is the roundest natural object ever measured in the universe. Stellar oscillations imply a difference in radius between the equator and the poles of only 3 km. This star is significantly more round than the Sun. © Illustration: Mark A. Garlick

All stars rotate and are therefore flattened by the centrifugal force. The faster the rotation, the more oblate the star becomes. Our Sun rotates with a period of 27 days and has a radius at the equator that is 10 km larger than at the poles; for the Earth this difference is 21 km. Gizon and his colleagues selected a slowly rotating star named Kepler 11145123. This hot and luminous star is more than twice the size of the Sun and rotates three times more slowly than the Sun.

Gizon and his colleagues selected this star to study because it supports purely sinusoidal oscillations. The periodic expansions and contractions of the star can be detected in the fluctuations in brightness of the star. NASA’s Kepler mission observed the star’s oscillations continuously for more than four years. Different modes of oscillation are sensitive to different stellar latitudes. For their study, the authors compare the frequencies of the modes of oscillation that are more sensitive to the low-latitude regions and the frequencies of the modes that are more sensitive to higher latitudes. This comparison shows that the difference in radius between the equator and the poles is only 3 km with a precision of 1 km. “This makes Kepler 11145123 the roundest natural object ever measured, even more round than the Sun” explains Gizon.

Surprisingly, the star is even less oblate than implied by its rotation rate. The authors propose that the presence of a magnetic field at low latitudes could make the star look more spherical to the stellar oscillations. Just like helioseismology can be used to study the Sun’s magnetic field, asteroseismology can be used to study magnetism on distant stars. Stellar magnetic fields, especially weak magnetic fields, are notoriously difficult to directly observe on distant stars.

Kepler 11145123 is not the only star with suitable oscillations and precise brightness measurements. “We intend to apply this method to other stars observed by Kepler and the upcoming space missions TESS and PLATO. It will be particularly interesting to see how faster rotation and a stronger magnetic field can change a star’s shape,” Gizon adds, “An important theoretical field in astrophysics has now become observational.”

BK / HOR
====================
In a recurring series about the history of our city that the citizens of Western New York should know, Chronicles takes a look at what makes different parts of Buffalo unique. The first three stories focused on Hertel Avenue, Grover Cleveland's Buffalo and the origins of Canalside.

In the coming years, the State of New York will spend $30 million to downgrade the Scajaquada Expressway and another $6 million to study the idea of covering the Kensington Expressway from Best Street to Ferry Street.

When visiting Buffalo to discuss highlights of the 2016-17 budget, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was met with cheers, oohs and aahs as he announced the work on the 33 and the 198, calling the ruining of Frederick Law Olmsted’s designs “a mistake.”

“It was originally the Humboldt Parkway,” said Cuomo of the Kensington Expressway, “it was beautiful, and it was part of the Olmsted design. In the mid-’50s, we had a better idea, and it turned out not to be a better idea, which was to move vehicles in and out of Buffalo faster by building a highway.”

While it makes for great speeches, it’s difficult to boil the agonizing, slow, 25-year Humboldt Parkway destruction process and community debate into a single sentence, let alone just the word “mistake.”

In much the same way that the debate over what should happen next with the Scajaquada and Kensington Expressways will likely rage for years, it was nearly a quarter-century of study, redesign, promises, running out of money, redesign and finding more money before Buffalo’s Kensington and Scajaquada expressways left the Humboldt Parkway a memory.

A political hot potato



From the time the expressways were proposed in 1946 to when the Kensington was finally completed in 1971, they were more than roads. The Kensington Expressway, especially, was one of those public works projects that seemed to take on a life of its own. Through 25 years, “the 33” was a political hot potato, a metaphor for Buffalo’s forward thinking and a metaphor for Buffalo’s inability to ever get anything done, something some people wanted and something some people hated all at the same time.

The building of the highway, especially in light of what was lost to build it, is almost universally considered a mistake. But how did we get here? What was that better idea Cuomo talked about? How were these scorched-earth highways allowed to happen?

It wasn’t, as is often portrayed, just a matter of wanting to transport people from downtown to suburbia “as quickly as possible.”

The state created the first plan for a series of arterial highways crisscrossing Buffalo in 1946. The idea was to connect all parts of the city with the Niagara and Ontario Thruways, which were already in the pipeline.

Most of these ideas died on the drawing board, but that 1946 plan set the wheels in motion for the Scajaquada and Kensington projects. None of these ideas was taken lightly — they were introduced as marvels of modern engineering that would be needed for the 300,000 cars that were expected to be filling Erie County’s roads by 1960.

[The Buffalo You Should Know: Before there was Canalside ...]

That number was passed in 1953. In the same breath that engineers were still calling the proposed highway system “futuristic,” they were also saying that if these roads weren’t finished quickly, they’d very likely be outdated before they were completed.

Planners thought that, if the number of cars in Erie County grew from 218,000 in 1946 to 368,000 in 1957, then the number could approach 625,000 in 1967. (The 2015 number, by the way, is 695,000.)

Traffic was increasing at an exponential rate. More and more cars were moving without guidance or planning through streets that were, in the words of one disgusted motorist, designed and “built for the horse and buggy.”

“The future of Buffalo’s residential areas is at stake today,” said Buffalo Planning Commission Director H. Dale Bossert, in outlining why Buffalo needed these new highways. “Heavy volumes of traffic are spilling over into formerly quiet neighborhood streets. A child on his way to school no longer travels along a quiet street but a trafficway rushing with cars and trucks.”

The roots of the Kensington Expressway were included in the 1946 plan as five separate highways, all meant to alleviate the traffic flowing through nearly every city neighborhood, combining into a single super highway providing a straight shot from downtown to the airport.

In 1951, the new Main/Humboldt underpass was already being created to help ease the congestion and traffic flow on city streets. The Scajaquada Parkway Expressway was meant to start at Delaware Avenue and run to the new Ontario Thruway (I-190.) Humboldt Parkway was being extended from Agassiz Circle to Delaware Avenue through the park, connecting the new expressway with the expedited traffic coming through the Main/Humboldt interchange.

A 1953 brochure outlining state plans for the highway were derided as “an over-enthusiastic engineer’s dream,” especially with the additional intersection in the middle with the Scajaquada Parkway expressway. The Kensington, the Scajaquada and the widening of Delaware Avenue from the park to Kenmore were thought to be enough to create better moving traffic around the north, east and west parts of the city.

It was clear that most Buffalonians and Western New Yorkers wanted to see the expressway built -- though many had reservations. Some didn’t think it was physically possible; others just thought it was too big and too expense and that it seemed implausible that all the state, county and city forces that needed to come together would actually do so.

[The Buffalo You Should Know: Grover Cleveland was here]

While there was protest of the building of the expressways -- particularly from those who stood to lose their homes, businesses and neighborhoods — far more complaints came from those upset over perceived dragging of feet on a project that was seen by editorial staffs at both The News and the Courier-Express as important to the future of the city and the region.

"Modern highway access to Buffalo's modernized airport will be assured," said planner Bossert. "In addition to these advantages for normal traffic, the Kensington Expressway offers an unparalleled opportunity for Civil Defense evacuation and assistance. Planning for dispersal from the northern part of Buffalo reveals the extreme urgency of this project."

Yes, Cold War-era Civil Defense preparedness was one of the reasons in favor of the Kensington. The need was there, said Major General Edwin Zeigler, Erie County’s Director of Civil Defense, to move people out of the city quickly in the event of an enemy attack.

At one public hearing, he testified that a June 1954 mock test showed that under then-established escape routes, about 230,000 Buffalonians would have died in an attack. With a good dispersal plan along high-speed highways, the number of dead in a potential attack could be dropped as low as 49,000.

In the 1950s, Buffalo was lagging behind other metropolitan areas in New York State and big cities across the country in terms of having a system of arterial highways with good traffic patterns to encourage the better flow of people in and out of the city.

Nearly eight years after it was proposed, the city and state weren’t even close to agreeing to how to start the Kensington project, although most seemed to agree something needed to be done. “You can only put so many fish in a bowl,” Buffalo Mayor Steven Pankow said in 1954, in urging agreement on the Kensington.

As more cars clogged the streets and Buffalo faced losing state and federal funding for road and highway building, years of inaction, more than possible destruction, were on the minds of civic leaders.

Newspaper editorial department writers opined “prompt action on Kensington Expressway plan is necessary.” The Chamber of Commerce hoped that “any objections to letting the State start right away with construction can be resolved quickly in the best interests of Buffalo as a whole."

It was envisioned that the Kensington Expressway would carry more traffic than all of the city’s radial streets combined, and would fix the traffic problems that had been plaguing the city for decades.

“This important project would be a major step forward in alleviating the traffic blight that has diseased our neighborhood communities,” said City Plannning Director Russell Tryon in 1954.

He further went on to say that he thought the construction of the expressway might help keep people in the city, rather than literally drive them to suburbia. “If we make Buffalo a better place in which to live, the people will stay and not move out."

Tryon added, “Unless something is done to alleviate the traffic blight in the neighborhood communities, the situation will grow so much worse that it won't worth living in Buffalo anymore.”

'Let's not study anymore. Let's move.'

The Chamber of Commerce’s executive director, Charles Fichtner, called the Kensington a "golden opportunity" and said letting the opportunity to build it with outside money slide would be "a little short of civic treason,” adding that Buffalo is at "threshold of great and unlimited future progress. This is no time to make little plans. This is no time to think in small terms. We should want to do big things and think big things."

“Let's not study anymore,” he pleaded. "Let's move.”

By 1954, when it became clear that neighborhoods in the Fruit Belt and along Humboldt Parkway would be the first targeted by the wrecker’s ball, many people who had lived there for generations spoke out — but their voices were marginalized by planners and the press.

A brief article about a community meeting on the project said that of about 200 people there, most of whom were slated to lose their homes, there was “an angry minority of homeowners in the Kensington section” who were looking to stand in the way of progress.

One homeowner argued that it wasn't fair for the city and state to remove them from homes which they've occupied for years, contending it would impose a tremendous hardship on elderly people who didn't follow the younger generation into the suburbs. Still others expressed the fear that the expressway, when completed, would encourage more Buffalonians to move out of the city because it would provide them with a high-speed route to their work in the city. A few contended the expressway would form another "barrier" dividing the Kensington section into two distinct parts.

[The Buffalo You Should Know: Hertel Avenue]

State Public Works Engineer William Gallancy compared the building of the Expressway to a major surgical procedure: “Painful, but necessary for survival.”

Some questioned that notion. In a letter to the editor signed WHY, a Kensington area resident opines, “Our traffic situation is serious, but surely, with all the top engineers of the country to consult, a better plan could be devised. Why put a speedway through the middle of a heavy populated area? Will there be a 'pedestrian under-pass at each street, or will people have to walk blocks to get across the highway? What's wrong with a subway or an elevated, along one of our wider streets? Let's fix the streets we already have.”

"Kensington area residents are definitely opposed to the Expressway as presently planned,” said Councilman at Large Peter Frey — one of the few city leaders to take up the plight of those who’d lose their homes to the Kensington. "They are willing and ready for any traffic relief, providing it does not blight the area and cause them to lose their homes, which represent their life savings. They do not feel that they 'should have to suffer the consequences’ to bring suburbanites into downtown Buffalo. I agree with them in this respect.”

Years of feet-dragging end

By early 1957, the state was getting ready to displace 600 families from their homes to begin construction. Any family displaced by the expressway was given priority in in the newly built Kensington Heights public housing project on Fillmore Avenue, but it wasn’t always as orderly as moving from the path of the expressway to a nice new apartment.

One “battling grandma” made the front page of the paper, after sending Gov. Averill Harriman a letter denouncing the state’s “dillydallying” on the Kensington project. Mrs. Edmund Jakubiak owned a building in the path of the expressway that the state promised to buy, so all her tenants left, and she herself bought a new place on the promise of a forthcoming state check. When no check appeared, the state’s “shenanigans” left her owing money and having to apply for a loan for her new home.

Jakubiak became a minor folk hero around her soon-to-be-demolished Best Street neighborhood, as she made sure every penny owed her was paid in full.

She wasn’t the only one to leave before the state was ready to begin construction, and those who left their not-long-for-this world homes and businesses left them vacant — and open to criminals. "Lawless elements,” it was claimed, “are congregating and endangering lives and property in and around houses taken over by the state” for the Kensington Expressway.

Homes are dismantled

On Dec. 16, 1957, the dismantling of homes and businesses along Cherry and Peach streets began, with demolition starting in January 1958 — 12 years after the project was announced. Many applauded this development, as the first section of land for the highway, from Michigan and Cherry to Humboldt and Landon, was cleared by August 1958.

Many of those who weren’t slated to lose their homes ended up losing the aesthetic of their communities, especially those living along Humboldt Parkway.

Buffalo School teacher Cornelia Metz lived at 936 Humboldt and wrote about her worst fears in a letter to the editor.

“It is not generally known that the beautiful trees on Humboldt Parkway will fall victim to ‘progress’ when the Kensington Expressway is constructed. Only a complete materialist could ride the mile-and-a-half of this street without being thrilled by its beauty. “Must those who are in a hurry to go to their suburban homes be given more consideration than those who live in and pay taxes in the city? Granted that something must be done to expedite traffic, but must that be at the expense of our trees?”

Entreaties like Metz’s were met with a tone bordering on mocking by city developer Russell Tryon, who wrote about problems in building the expressway in the Courier-Express. “One opponent devoted considerable time to the harm which would be done to Humboldt Parkway by the proposed improvement, such as increased traffic and the loss of lovely trees on one of the city's most attractive parkways. Answer — unfortunately, except for the trees in the Center Mall, the esthetic qualities of the parkway already have been largely destroyed by heavy traffic.”

Shortly thereafter, the tree-lined median in front of Metz’s home was replaced with a high-speed expressway.

That was 1958. The stretch of the Kensington between the Scajaquada Expressway and the Buffalo Airport was built over the next decade.

In 1968, when the original plans were completed and downtown Buffalo was connected to the Buffalo airport, a problem remained: As engineers had predicted as early as the 1940s, the expressways could still be obsolete by the time they were finished.

This caused one last flurry of road building and the final trees of Olmsted’s Humboldt Parkway to be felled.

Expressway sinks into place

The "Hourglass" portion of the Kensington moved traffic off the subterranean blown-out expressway onto Humboldt Parkway. Traffic clogged going toward downtown in the afternoon and toward Cheektowaga in the morning. Twenty years of planning and building, and the road still didn’t alleviate traffic. Worse yet, that small stretch saw the most accidents — and the most fatal accidents — than anywhere else along the highway.

The Courier-Express noticed the dwindling number of trees. “One of the most impressive archways of trees in Buffalo is rapidly disappearing to the tune of rasping power saws along the ‘bottleneck’ section of the Kensington Expressway. The biting teeth of the saws undo in minutes what it took 90 years for nature to accomplish. Many of the 300 trees that are to be felled are stately elms that were planted by the city around 1880,” was written in July 1968, “but then motorists snagged in rush-hour traffic jams in the section, less than one mile between East Delavan Avenue and Northampton Street, might be soothed by trees in summer green.”

By the end of 1968, the trees were gone. Thousands of tons of rock and earth were moved to sink the final grade-level portion of the expressway.

So, mistake? Sure. But a bit more complicated than that.
====================
Pine DevBlog #18 - Reconnects and Ragdolls Posted in Development Blogs

Tweet Share

This week it was time for Casual Connect! One third of the team set out to reconnect with old friends and connect to some new developers, publishers and others in the business of games, as part of the Indie Prize program in Berlin.







Although demoing Pine was not the main order of business, it's always nice to see people play. Some new feedback was gathered and some interesting connections were made for later down the line.



Back home, some good progress was made on a neat layer of polish for all species: we implemented ragdoll physics for when organisms are considered dead. This is already substantially adding to their physicality.















Some exciting new art was made for one of the game's Vaults. Without giving away too much, here's some WIP work on the walls and windows of this particular area, which will be featured in the trailer:







That's all for now! Don't forget about our Greenlight page at the end of February and Kickstarter coming in early March.
====================
Did you know that Alice Cooper and Groucho Marx were good friends?

They became friends while living in Beverly Hills. Groucho had insomnia and would call Coop at 1 a.m. to hang out. “He had a chair next to his bed with a six pack of Budweiser, and we would sit and watch old movies. And then pretty soon, after about two movies were over, I’d look over and he’d be in his beret and his cigar and he’d finally go to sleep. I’d put out his cigar, turn out the lights and go home. And the next night, one o’clock in the morning: ‘Hey coop, can’t sleep, come on over.’”

Groucho recognized Cooper’s shows as vaudeville, and he brought George Burns and Jack Benny along.

“In fact,” Cooper says, “George Burns would say, ‘Guillotine – I remember 1923, Gracie and I were working in Toledo. The great Mahagony did an act like that, except pigeons would come out.’

In 1978, the Hollywood sign was in bad shape after years of neglect. Nine donors each paid for one of the letters to be restored. Alice Cooper paid for the final O in memory of Groucho.


====================
In a damning development in one of the oil industry's biggest global corruption scandals, leaked emails reveal that Big Oil executives knowingly took part in "a vast bribery scheme that robbed the Nigerian people of over a billion dollars," a new exposé has revealed.

The full investigation, titled Shell Knew, was published by watchdog groups Global Witness and Finance Uncovered on Monday. It includes newly-unearthed internal emails which show that officials at the highest level of Royal Dutch Shell and the Rome-based oil and gas company Eni were aware that a $1 billion payment in 2011 for OPL 245—said to be "one of Africa's most valuable oil blocks"—would end up in the hands of convicted money launderer and ex-Nigerian oil minister Dan Etete, and from there "would flow onward for bribes."

"This is one of the worst corruption scandals the oil industry has ever seen, and this is the biggest development so far," said Simon Taylor, co-founder of Global Witness, which has been investigating the scandal for six years. The oil giants have long-denied that they were aware of any foul playing, saying that they only made payments to the Nigerian government.

"Today's new evidence shows senior executives at the world's fifth biggest company knowingly entered a corrupt deal that deprived the Nigerian people of $1.1 billion," Taylor continued. "That is more than the country's entire health budget for 2016."

At the time Shell and Eni were jockeying to buy the oil block, which was estimated to hold nine billion barrels of reserves, the most senior civil servant in Nigeria's petroleum department sent a previously unreported letter blasting the sale as "highly prejudicial," warning that Nigeria was "throwing away an enormous amount of financial resources," the report notes.

The report notes that while in power, Etete "had awarded himself ownership of the block in 1998 via a company he secretly owned, Malabu Oil and Gas." The payments made by Shell and Eni to purchase OPL245, the emails made clear, would flow to Etete and other high-level officials, including former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan.

The authors summarizes how they came to this conclusion:

In January 2011—less than three months before the deal was finalized—Shell's head of exploration Malcolm Brinded told then CEO Peter Voser that the $1.1 billion "will be used by the FGN [Federal Government of Nigeria] to settle all claims from Malabu," Etete's company. SCROLL TO CONTINUE WITH CONTENT Help Keep Common Dreams Alive Our progressive news model only survives if those informed and inspired by this work support our efforts



The previous year Shell executives had sent each other emails saying that Etete would spend much of his money on bribes. In July 2010 senior business advisor Guy Colegate wrote to Shell vice president for Commercial Sub-Saharan Africa Peter Robinson after a meeting with Etete in Paris. Colegate related that Nigerian President Jonathan Goodluck had just written a letter confirming Malabu's rights to OPL 245. This letter was "clearly an attempt to deliver significant revenues to GLJ [Goodluck Jonathan] as part of any transaction" over OPL 245, he said. "This is about personal gain and politics." In August 2010 Robinson sent exploration head Brinded a brief, saying "the President is motivated to see 245 closed quickly—driven by expectations about the proceeds that Malabu will receive and political contributions that will flow as a consequence." The brief was also sent to three other Shell executives.

Shell is currently facing trial for charges of international corruption; an Italian court will begin hearings on April 20 to determine whether the trial will proceed.

Notably, the new evidence comes two months after the U.S. Congress voted to repeal Section 1504 of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, also known as the "extraction rule," which required that companies in oil, gas, and mining industries disclose payments to governments in the countries where they operate. It was intended to prevent fossil fuel companies from striking backroom deals with foreign governments.

"This is a huge scandal—it must trigger change," said Shauna Leven, Global Witness' Anti-Corruption Campaigns director, in response to the latest developments.

"For too long the world's most powerful and profitable oil companies have masqueraded as leaders of responsible business," Leven continued, "while robbing countries of their most precious assets. We could save countless lives across the world if ordinary people were able to benefit from the wealth of their own natural resources."
====================
Again, going back to January (before my latest surgery), I had the pleasure and privilege of taking a root stand carving workshop with Sean Smith. Sean is probably the pre-eminent Japanese woodcraft artist active in the bonsai community in the U.S. today. You know, I once knew a man with a wooden leg named Smith. I never asked him the name of his other leg. But I bet it was Sean who carved the wooden one.



Sean has thought long and hard as to how a class like this is taught. He prepares blanks for the students to make it easier.

The above pic is off his Facebook feed. The wood we used was mahogany. It’s a good carving wood in that it holds detail well but it is also brittle along the grain so you have to be careful making too skinny details horizontally (the grain is running up and down on these blanks).

Here’s my virgin wood.

It’s about six inches.

The class was well attended.

I believe we had 10 or 11 people. Sean covered the carving process in steps and helped those who needed it.

He first demonstrated what he wanted us to do.





This is an example of one of Sean’s own root stands.

And the term “root stand” is a misnomer really, obviously it’s not a root we are carving but the whole process and technique is called “root stand”. I’m sure that there are some that are actually roots but most you see are carved in a similar process.

Now, a little about Sean: he doesn’t just do root stands. He is a classically trained diaza carver.

That’s the base a suiseki sits on (a suiseki is a stone that tends to look mountain like or such. It’s a whole ‘nother art that requires a book to explain. Look it up). The stone above was featured in the 3rd annual Nippon Suiseki Exhibit at the Metroplitan Museum of Art in Tokyo. One of the only westerners to have that honor.

Sean also builds bonsai stands-

And most anything else that is Japanese woodcraft.

He is also an excellent bonsai artist.

He styles in a beautifully naturalistic (and classical) style that most modern bonsai artists have abandoned. He also likes to pose with his trees. If I worked on the trees he gets to work on, I would too.

Getting back to the class, here I am during it.

This is becoming my look. The masked carver.

And after it was over. The group.



My stand at the end of the session.



It wasn’t finished there. I took it home and fiddled around with it some more.

Here is another participants stand, actually “finished”

It was carved by Phil, who’s the tall guy in the back, on the left, in the group pic above.

He used a mahogany stain (ironically) on his, with a gloss finish.

I think it came out spectacularly.

My stand, still not finished, very much in a state of abandonment.





I’ll post some pics on social media when I do finally finish it.

Thank you for the class Sean, I learned a lot. I wish I had gotten to spend some more time with you after the class, see you soon.

If your club or convention is looking for a good hands on class, I recommend contacting Sean Smith. He has Diana carving classes, stand building classes, miniature tokanoma building classes (which is as cool as it sounds). You will not be disappointed.
====================
CLOSE A woman was shot and killed on Indianapolis' Eastside late Monday, Dec. 21, 2015. Police said two children inside the home during the shooting were unharmed. Michael Anthony Adams/The Star

Buy Photo An IMPD officer stands at the front door of a home where a woman was found shot to death late Monday night. Police said two children were inside the home at the time of the shooting. The woman’s husband has been charged with her murder. (Photo: Michael Anthony Adams / The Star)Buy Photo

Penny Jones's aunt knew she argued with her husband, like any married couple.

Yet any deeper marital problems remained hidden from the 28-year-old woman's family, her aunt, Doris Byrd, said.

Jones, perhaps, suffered in silence.

Byrd was stunned when she learned her niece was shot and killed Monday night while her two young sons slept in her Eastside home in the 3300 block of North Chester Avenue.

"My immediate thought was that someone was lying," Byrd said softly, her voice wavering.

With her fatal shooting, Jones has become the 140th victim of criminal homicide in Indianapolis this year, five higher than the 135 recorded last year. It also ties the recent high of 140 criminal homicides tallied in 2006, a year considered one of the city's deadliest.

Detectives on Tuesday arrested Jones's husband, Dorian Barker, 31, on suspicion of murder in connection with the death.

Dorian Barker is accused of killing his wife. (Photo: Provided by IMPD)

"As a husband and wife, I'm sure they had their issues which led to this, but this is the first I've ever known them to fight," Byrd said, acknowledging they had argued from time to time.

Byrd, though, said she didn't know much about her niece's husband. The two had only been married since July.

Barker has been arrested twice in the past on charges of domestic violence, but in both cases, all counts were dismissed.

Prosecutors in 2007 charged Barker with strangulation, battery and domestic battery, but later dismissed the counts. In 2012, prosecutors charged Barker with strangulation, intimidation, two counts of battery and two counts of domestic battery. Those charges were also dismissed.

Byrd has two sons, ages 5 and 11, from a previous relationship. They were asleep when their mother was killed, Byrd said. They are physically unharmed, she said.

Emergency dispatchers received multiple calls around 10:15 p.m. Monday.

NEWSLETTERS Get the Breaking News newsletter delivered to your inbox We're sorry, but something went wrong Urgent developments you should know now, not later. Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-888-357-7827. Delivery: varies Invalid email address Thank you! You're almost signed up for Breaking News Keep an eye out for an email to confirm your newsletter registration. More newsletters

When officers from the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department's North District arrived, they found a woman suffering from a gunshot wound, police said.

Child Protective Services responded to the home.

Officers detained Barker at the home and later transported him Downtown to the homicide office for questioning, police said.

He was booked in jail Tuesday on suspicion of murder.

To support her family, Jones drove an IndyGo bus and worked as a home health aide with the elderly.

"She was a very likable person," Byrd said. "I'm not saying that because she's mine. That's just how she was."

Byrd will care for the two young boys for now, she said.

Call Star reporter Michael Anthony Adams at (317) 444-6123. Follow him on Twitter: @MichaelAdams317.

Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1YgBhTn
====================
Wifi Lamp

This is a colorful lamp working on battery and cotrolled from a smartphone (or any android device) over wifi.

Principle of operation

The lamp taken apart. The thing tapped next to the LEDs is the external wifi antenna.

The lamp is powered by a lithium battery made of two cells scavanged from a laptop battery. It can be charged by a micro-usb port thanks to this charging circuit.

The voltage is then step up to 5 V with a boost converter to power the addresable rgb LEDs WS2811.

These 5 V are then regulated down to 3.3 V with a LM317 based circuit to power the ESP8266 which handles the communications and drives the LEDs.

Principle of operation of the lamp.

ESP8266

Picture of the pcb with the ESP8266 and the boost converter (3.7 V->5 V). It also shows the battery, the main switch and a part of the battery charger below the switch

This module was initially designed to provide a wifi connection to another microcontroller through a serial interface. But as it contains a microcontroller clocked at 80 MHz with a large flash memory (up to 4 Mo) it did not take too long for alternative firmware to be availlable.

For this project I used an ESP-07 module flashed with the NodeMCU firmware which make it easily programmable in LUA. The ESPlorer IDE makes the development even more easy.

The received signal level was so weak with the integrated antenna that it was almost unusable. Thus I added an external antenna scavanged from a dead laptop (fortunately the connectors are the same). The added antenna is the thing tapped next to the LEDs on the first picture above.

The firmware is quite simple. When the lamp is switched on, it tries to connect to an access point configured (in the config.lua file), if the connection is not successful after a few seconds, the lamp creates its own access point which permits its configuration.

Two servers are running simultaneously

A TCP server listening on the 80 port and provides the configuration web page ;

An UDP server listening on the 8888 port receiving the colors for the LEDs.

Configuration web page of the lamp

In order to change the colors of the LEDs, one just send an UDP packet containing the 18 bytes (rgbrgbrgb...) encoding the Red, Green and Blue values for each LED.

The http server is extremely basic, it answers to any request with the configuration page and handles the reception of the parameters. I used a part of nodemcu-httpserver by marcoskirsch.

Android ppplication

Android control application.

The control application is also very basic, the user selects the color of each LED by a touch on the colored circle. A swipe on the circle allows the selection of the same color for all the LEDs. I re-used the color picker by Chiral Code with a few slight modifications. The video below shown the application running.

Pictures

Video
====================
Microsoft is working on a new browser - known by its development codename, 'Spartan' - and we brought you the first images of the new application last week. While other features are starting to be uncovered, we have found out a bit more about how the browser will work across Microsoft's ecosystem.

As we previously reported, Spartan is a Windows Store application, and we can confirm that it will be replacing the current Modern version of IE that is included in Windows 8.1. Spartan will support Flash as well; this was a common question we received and can confirm that some versions of the browser do support it. We say "some versions" as the platform you are on will determine which features are available to you.

Spartan will be the browser across all of your Microsoft devices, from Windows 10 Mobile (Windows Phone) to Windows 10, and eventually onto your Xbox; this is Microsoft's new Modern browser. And because Modern apps now work on the desktop in Windows 10, Spartan could very well be your choice of replacement for Internet Explorer.

We should be hearing a lot more about Spartan at the Windows 10 event that takes place on the 21st of this month. But know that the current builds of Spartan are crazy buggy right now, and the team has quite a bit of work to do before this browser is ready for prime-time.
====================
Renewable energy promotion and its cost are at the heart of the energy policy debate in many countries. The question from an economic perspective is how expensive the promotion of renewable sources through price-based incentive schemes is. This paper addresses this issue empirically. We analyze the Spanish electricity market during the period 2008–2012, where renewable energy production rose by 57%. To determine how expensive it was, we first measure the savings due to the spot price reduction driven by the merit order effect and, second, we compute the amount paid as incentives to green energy by the electricity system; the difference between the two is the net cost of green energy to the electricity markets. We present aggregate results for renewable sources as a whole, as well as individual results for each technology. We show that at the initial stages, when renewable capacity was low, green energy promotion paid for itself (2008–2009); however, from 2010 on, when renewable production reached a relatively high level, it started to impose a positive net cost on the system. Finally, we found substantial differences among technologies: wind energy implied the lowest net cost, while solar photovoltaic was the most expensive.
====================
What do Donald Trump and a bee hive have in common?

While this might sound like the setup to a bad joke or bit of political punditry, it’s an important and meaningful academic question. To a collective behavior scientist, electing a president or choosing a new nest site are both choices that arise from the interactions of a large number of individuals.

WIRED OPINION About Joe Bak-Coleman (@jbakcoleman) is a Ph.D. candidate in ecology and evolutionary biology at Princeton University, where he is studying collective behavior.

When bees need to find a new nest site, scouts will visit several potential locations. When they return, if they like the site they dance excitedly in a way that tells others where it is located. This dancing may recruit more scouts to check out the site, who likewise visit the site and start dancing to express support for the location. Bees will butt heads with dancers advocating for an opposing location. Through these interactions, they eventually settle on a nest site, often a very good one. The amazing thing is that this process allows a hive to measure the relative quality of nest sites, without any single bee knowing which is best.

It's not hard to draw parallels between selecting a nest and selecting a president. We each have a candidate we support, often without full information about the variety of options, and we still excitedly post to Facebook. Our goal is to recruit others to in turn support our candidate and spread our beliefs.

On face value, this is encouraging. If bees can find the best nest, can't we find the best presidential candidate? Indeed, animal groups often make extraordinary collective decisions that go far beyond the abilities of any single individual. The idea that groups can make collective decisions more successfully than individuals is known as the "wisdom of the crowd" and is arguably why we vote, have juries, and fill boardrooms.

Unfortunately, the power of collective decision-making is fickle. For instance, if individuals are wrong on average, their collective decision-making processes select the worse of two options. In complex environments with multiple sources of information, sometimes small groups are better than large ones. Even individuals with no preference whatsoever can have striking impacts on the group-level decisions. These are just some of the myriad of ways in which the wisdom of the crowd isn’t so straightforward.

Imagine for a moment, that exactly half of the bees see dances for one site, and half for another. Without crucial interaction between both sides, since they're split evenly they risk becoming deadlocked. If they are forced to decide, their selection would likely be random, even if the original quality difference was massive.

Could the same thing happen with elections? It's well known that companies like Google and Facebook measure the political leanings of their users, something that makes financial sense. But what do they do with this data? Even seemingly benign decisions could have disastrous collective consequences.

Centering is arguably one of the more commonplace and generally innocuous data science procedures. It involves removing the average from your data so that it is split evenly around zero. Many machine-learning algorithms, such as those that are likely used by Facebook and Google, rely on centered data and behave poorly without it. A reasonable data scientist might apply centering to political leanings, particularly in a bipartisan society. But what happens if they then use this centered metric to preferentially display news stories?

Going back to our honeybee example, this practice is effectively the same as dividing the hive evenly into two groups and only showing either side one option. It's possible that such a simple, reasonable data science decision could push the system toward evenly split political beliefs. Beyond simply creating an echo chamber, this would explicitly remove all leaning of the system toward a better option, making election results effectively random. A line of code could shift an electorate.

Unfortunately, most social media sites aren't open source, so it's impossible to know what decisions they've made. Centering, echo chambers, and fake news represent only a few of many plausible ways in which social media might have meaningful and unexpected consequences. The notion that social media has no measurable impact on elections is beyond far-fetched. The elephant in the room is whether or not they make for better, worse, or simply more random collective choices. Where are they taking us?

What is alarming is that we simply have no idea. Tackling these types of questions is at the heart of the quickly growing field of collective behavior. Scientists are developing tools and mathematical models to make sense of the very complex data inherent to these systems. Whether or not we solve global warming, reduce human suffering, and avoid nuclear war are all ultimately questions about collective behavior. The importance of understanding how we make decisions, and how these decisions are shaped by technology, is difficult to overstate.

One of the more beautiful and haunting collective phenomena is that of ant mills, or "death spirals." When separated from the trail, large groups of army ants occasionally begin to march in a circle until they die of starvation, each dutifully following the pheromone trails of the ants laid out ahead of them. The simple rules that they've evolved to follow, which generally lead to astonishing feats of collective behavior, can ultimately doom them under the wrong circumstances.

Today, it's not clear if social media is pushing humanity into a death spiral or pulling us out of one. Understanding how technology shapes human collective behavior is a very hard scientific problem. Swarms, flocks and schools provide valuable insight into how individual decisions lead to group action. It has never been more important to understand what humans and bees have in common.
====================
By Yair Auron

Haaretz

In an Israeli forest dedicated to Israel’s first president, Chaim Weizmann, 613 trees were planted last month to mark “24 years since the Khojaly genocide” in Azerbaijan. The only ones commemorating this “genocide” – in which 613 people were allegedly killed – are Azeris, Turks and, in recent years, Israelis. The Azeri press is overjoyed: “It is not surprising that Israelis remember the victims of Khojaly. The Jews know more than any other nation the pain of innocent victims, murdered only because they belonged to a certain group.”

The battle for Khojaly took place in February 1992, at the height of a vicious war between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces during the Nagorno-Karabakh War. There are several versions regarding what happened, including a disputed numbers of victims. There are some who claim there was not even a massacre, but one thing is clear: No genocide took place there. I say this as a genocide researcher and as a person who believes that the murder of even one person because of his affiliation is an intolerable crime.

At the start of the war, observers were convinced Azerbaijan would wipe out the Armenian enclave within days, but after six blood-soaked years, with both sides perpetrating massacres, the Armenians won.

The “genocide” at Khojaly is a cynical Azeri fabrication, evil and cruel. It is being fostered by Azerbaijan, which explicitly declares its intention of conquering Nagorno-Karabakh and destroying its villages.

In recent years, the State of Israel – the main arms supplier to Azerbaijan – has become a direct and indirect supporter of these genocide claims. President Reuven Rivlin spoke of the Khojaly tragedy in his January 2015 speech to the UN General Assembly on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, referring to acts of genocide that took place in our time. He didn’t specifically define what happened in Nagorno-Karabakh as genocide, but he linked the two by talking about “the killing in Khojaly.”

Rivlin has previously stated publicly, including when he was Knesset speaker, that Israel should recognize the Armenian genocide (perpetrated by the Ottoman government, starting in 1915), but refuses to repeat this as president. His words at the United Nations were interpreted by both Azeris and Armenians as if he had used the term “genocide” in reference to Khojaly.

To me, the planting of trees in an Israeli forest and the Azeri-Jewish “brotherhood of victims” that was emphasized at the ceremony are a desecration of something sacred. Describing Armenian soldiers as Nazis, the clear links made between the Holocaust and the massacres at Babi Yar, Lidice, Oradour and Khojaly are a terrible distortion of a basic historical truth.

How the wheel of history turns. In April 1918, Weizmann’s personal secretary, Shmuel Tolkowsky, published an article called “The Armenian Question from a Zionist Standpoint.” The article presented the positions of the Zionist Movement at the time, especially that of its London leaders, Weizmann and Nahum Sokolow. It was written with Weizmann’s support and approval.

“We Zionists feel a deep and sincere sympathy for the fate of the Armenian people. We do so as human beings, as Jews and Zionists. As Jews, we were exiled from our ancient land and experienced suffering for many centuries. We were turned, I dare say, into experts on martyrdom. Our humanitarian sensitivities were honed in an unparalleled fashion, to the point where the suffering of other nations, even those alien to us in their origin and distant in their location, cannot but shake our souls, giving rise to a fraternity between us and our suffering brethren, a deep fraternal link that could be termed ‘a brotherhood of sorrow.’

Among all those suffering around us, is there any nation whose history of martyrdom is more similar to ours?”

Last year, after various “Khojaly memorials” and the words of our president at the UN, a very senior Armenian cabinet member invited me to his office. “I speak to you not as a minister in the Armenian government but as one human being to another, as an Armenian to an Israeli Jew: how much more can you hurt us?” he asked. “You don’t recognize the 1915 genocide, you deny it, you sell arms to Azerbaijan – whose only purpose is to obliterate the Republic of Karabakh – and now you take part in events commemorating the ‘genocide in Khojaly,’ topped by your president’s words at the UN. We can’t take it anymore.”

The Dean of Yerevan University, where I teach, was once a student at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Earlier this year he said to me, “Yair, you are desecrating all moral values. You are defiling the memory of the Holocaust.”

Mentioning Khojaly and the Holocaust under one title at a recent, so-called scientific conference is indeed a desecration of the Holocaust and its victims. This event was attended by Knesset members and parliamentarians from Azerbaijan. It was organized at the initiative of a group called Aziz, the Israel-Azerbaijan International Association. This is a group the attorney general has been asked to investigate.

The forest where the trees were planted belongs to the Jewish National Fund, an official state institution. Who approved this odious act? Israeli officials talk of “our dear Azeri brothers.” They say: “We, Israelis and Jews, sympathize with your feelings.” Or “Jerusalem, just like Khojaly, was under siege.” And “We express our solidarity with the families of the victims and the Azeri people, solidarity with basic human values.”

Yes, Israel, we are indeed desecrating basic human values, and defiling the memory of the Holocaust and its victims. No one gave us the authority to do so!

The writer is a genocide researcher. This year he launched the “Genocide Studies and Human Rights” course at the American University of Armenia in Yerevan.
====================
Gender-neutral birth certificates could be issued to those who want them in Ontario as early as next year, provided the province can work out bureaucratic hurdles involving other governments.

Ontario's minister of government and consumer services says consultations will be held on the matter this summer and the province is working to ensure a gender-neutral birth certificate would be legally recognized in other jurisdictions.

Tracy MacCharles says she's hopeful Ontario can issue gender-neutral birth certificates by 2018.

She says she's been closely following the story of Joshua M. Ferguson, an Ontario-born filmmaker who identifies as neither male nor female and has applied to have a change of sex designation on their birth certificate from male to non-binary — a term used to define someone who doesn't identify with either gender.

Ferguson uses the pronouns they, them and their to reflect gender identity as a non-binary trans person.

CBC Toronto was the first to share Ferguson's story, and on Thursday, they praised MPP Cheri DiNovo for pushing for a non-binary birth certificate option during question period at Queen's Park.

"I know that in Ontario, gender identity and gender expression is protected from discrimination and I have a legal right to receive my non-binary birth certificate... I remain hopeful that the government will approve my application this summer," Ferguson says.

Ontario's Minister of Government and Consumer Services Tracy MacCharles says she knows the issue is important to the trans and non-binary community. (CBC News)

MacCharles says she knows the issue is important to the trans and non-binary community.

Currently, Ontario offers gender-neutral options for drivers' licenses and health cards but not for birth certificates.

"I cannot change any other forms of identification without first changing my birth certificate," says Ferguson, who lives in Vancouver and is also a writer and activist.

The 34-year-old has submitted a physician's letter along with the application to confirm that the sex on their current birth certificate does not match their gender identity.

Last month, activist Gemma Hickey applied for a non-binary birth certificate in Newfoundland and Labrador, but no decision has been announced.
====================
Every year, the college basketball community comes together to support the fight against cancer. They do this through Coaches vs. Cancer, a fantastic organization that has raised over $87 million for the American Cancer Society in the past. Coaches vs. Cancer raises public awareness through several events, but perhaps the most well-known is the Suits and Sneakers Weekend. During this weekend, coaches across the country ditch their dress shoes and walk the sideline in fresh sneaks instead. It's a fun way to support an amazing cause, and if you hadn't heard about any of this before I implore you to click one of the links I posted above and get learned.

Our very own Frank Haith, no slouch when it comes to fashion, donned a pair of white and gold Air Force Ones during the event. The Tigers performed admirably during that timespan, handling South Carolina 82-74, but then something strange happened. Suits and Sneakers Weekend ended, and Haith kept on wearing his Ones. During Mizzou's 75-71 victory at Arkansas, Haith patrolled the sidelines in the same gold and white Ones that he wore against the Gamecocks. When asked about his kicks, Frank let the media know that he would be squeaking up and down the floor as long as his team kept their winning steak going.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p>Breaking News: Haith confirms he's sticking with the sneakers as long as Mizzou wins. "Yes, sir. Yes, sir." <a href="http://t.co/1YhR55uUnM">pic.twitter.com/1YhR55uUnM</a></p>— Dave Matter (@Dave_Matter) <a href="https://twitter.com/Dave_Matter/statuses/428356756578635776">January 29, 2014</a></blockquote>

<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Know what that means? FRANK'S GONNA NEED MORE PAIRS.

[beat drops]

I said giiiiiiiiive me twooooooooo pairs

Iiiiiiiii need twoooooooo pairs

SO I can get to winnin' in my Air Force Ones

(BIG BOY)

Winnin' in my Air Force Ones

I like the all white high top strap with the gold bottom

(BIG BOY)

There's somethin' about 'em that's dirty that's why I got 'em

(BIG BOY)

I leave 'em strapped and laced for when I'm coachin'

(BIG BOY)

I give the balls to Jabari and then he shot 'em

(BIG BOY)

Now if you looked, and seen my Forces match my psyche

(BIG BOY)

You couldn't get this color 'less you got hooked up by Nike

(BIG BOY)

You know I keep it hip-hop

My players don't flop

(BIG BOY)

Yeah my team will be on top

Before this season does stop

(BIG BOY)

I like the limited edition with khakis they look so clean

(BIG BOY)

My suit is pin stripe and you should see how it gleam

(BIG BOY)

Size eight I can't lie

White and gold with a black tie

(BIG BOY)

The whole game?

Well it just depend on if I need to strip

(BIG BOY)

Don't get me wrong, man

And Franky Haith ain't dumb, man

(BIG BOY)

Cause if a shooter's on the corner you should pass, man

(BIG BOY)

You cannot shoot and tell me you didn't see him

(BIG BOY)

You gonna miss it and then you comin' out man

I SAID

Giiiiiiive me twooooooo pairs

Iiiiiii need twoooooo pairs

SO I can get to winnin' in my Air Force Ones

(BIG BOY)

Winnin' in my Air Force Ones
====================
The Oracle at Delphi is referenced throughout Greek myths and history. Supposedly she was rendered psychic by Apollo. Practically, she was off her skull on gas that seeped out of the fissures of the temple in which she lived. Here is the scientific explanation for what caused this woman to utter her confused prophecies.

Even during the Oracle at Delphi's time, it was widely known that the Oracle's visions had a practical cause. Gas seeped out of the cracks in the cave where she sat, causing her to talk nonsense. This nonsense would then be interpreted by priests around her. Some of the predictions were surprisingly accurate - according to legend. Croesus, the richest man of his time, performed a kind of scientific test on oracles, when he had messengers go out to all of them and ask what he would be doing on a certain date. Delphi got the only correct answer - cooking a tortoise in a pot. (Bold choice. I wouldn't think of the richest guy in the world doing his own cooking.)

Advertisement

Modern archaeologists weren't convinced - not about the tortoise and not about the gas. They inspected the geology of the area for volcanic activity that might vent gas, and found nothing, not even in the distant past. Later, however, they took another look, and found two fault lines converging just under the temple of Delphi. Perhaps the mystic "vapors" that the Oracle breathed in had seeped through these. In interdisciplinary team found that dissolving limestone along those lines gave off gas, and spiked the local water.

The main components found in the water were ethane, methane, and ethylene. Most think that it's ethylene that is the key component. Ethylene was one of the early painkillers used during medical procedures. It packed more of a punch than nitrous oxide. It smells a bit like flowers, and renders the sniffer euphoric, but extremely out-of-it. It's not especially bad for people (although various compounds of ethylene can be very harmful), and its main danger is that of suffocation. It displaces air and makes people too high to notice. The combination of extreme anesthesia, euphoria, and lack of oxygen, can make a person say all kinds of things.

Other scientists argue that ethylene wasn't the chemical that made the Oracle talk, though. Methane, which decidedly doesn't smell like flowers, can also cause hallucinations if inhaled in high enough doses. The methane theory isn't without its faults. Methane can kill people a lot faster than ethylene, particularly if it's being burned, or otherwise decomposing, to produce carbon dioxide. A by-product of the conversion is carbon monoxide, which attaches itself to red blood cells more readily than oxygen does. Too much can smother a person, but not before they often experiences confusion and hallucinations. Carbon monoxide is a regular by-product of burning fuels, though, and so there's no reason why the ancient Greeks, who surely had mastered fire, would consider the gas and its effects so special.

Advertisement

It would be considered irresponsible, even by the most hardcore archaeologists, to dose a grad student with spiked water, or shut them up in a cave, to either be poisoned or suffocated. So there's no way we'll be sure whether the Oracles of Delphi were high or were suffocating or were faking it. All we can be sure of is she craved tortoise meat.

Top Image: Frank Fleschner

Via JAMA, CDC, The Naked Scientists, and National Geographic.
====================
Update, Oct. 4: The mission will go on. Planetary scientists behind the MAVEN Mars mission announced yesterday that they have received an exemption to the federal government shutdown. While most of NASA remains furloughed, MAVEN scientists can resume their plans to launch the explorer during its Nov. 18 to Dec. 7 window.

The government shutdown isn't just closing the doors of various federal agencies. Its effects could be felt even beyond our planet.

The Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN spacecraft, or MAVEN, is an orbiter planned to study the atmosphere of Mars to find out why that world lost the thick, Earth-like atmosphere it once had, leaving to the low-pressure whisp present there today. It will also study the chemical composition of the atmosphere, including the effects of solar wind, the number of stable isotopes in the atmosphere, and the rates of escape of certain gasses. Work has been under way since the probe was delivered to NASA in August to prepare the probe for a launch window coming up this November. The probe has sat in a sterile "clean room" and undergone numerous tests and fueling measures since. But because of the government shutdown that started today as a result of Congress's inability to approve a budget, MAVEN could be marooned here on Earth.

According to the Planetary Society, 97 percent of NASA's workforce will be furloughed during the shutdown, and no one knows how long it will last. The space agency's skeleton crew will be responsible for ensuring the most important operations, such as ensuring that the International Space Station crew remains safe and existing probes continue to function, though nobody will be around to analyze the spacecraft data until the shutdown ends. NASA websites, and the charming Twitter accounts that update the public on behalf of their missions, are down.

As for MAVEN, its launch window to reach Mars lasts from Nov. 18 through Dec. 7. Should the government shutdown cancel the launch, a new launch window will not open for another 26 months, leaving MAVEN a sitting duck for two years.

And if MAVEN does launch in 2016, it will be at diminished capacity: The probe would be working on reduced power because of the effect of solar cycles. Solar power is critical to the craft, whose solar arrays are designed like bird wings to help stabilize it during the five dips it will do into the Martian atmosphere while gathering data. Some projections estimate that sunspot activity in 2016 will be at an historic low, which will result in something akin to the Little Ice Age four centuries ago.

According to an anonymous NASA employee who posts on Tumblr under the username For All Mankind, if the shutdown lasts for "longer than a few days," then the damage will already be done to MAVEN. "A $650 million dollar mission will have to be put into storage until 2016, and the overall science output of the vehicle will be reduced significantly because of the solar cycle," he said.

This isn't the first time that a shutdown, or the threat of a shutdown, has jeopardized a NASA mission. In 2011, a shutdown was narrowly averted that, had it gone through, would have postponed the final launch of the space shuttle Endeavor. A 1995 shutdown left American astronauts on the space station Mir in the midst of the shutdown, with only essential employees at the home office and no office of public affairs to report on mission progress.

By coincidence, today marks NASA's the 55th anniversary. The birthday parties might be rather low-key this year: Only 549 employees are reporting to work.
====================
Flashback: U.S. admits more Muslim immigrants in 5 years than entire Muslim population of Belgium

Citizenship candidates wait for a naturalization ceremony to begin in New York, NY, on July 2, 2013. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) conducted three naturalization ceremonies for 450 people today in Manhattan ahead of the July 4th holiday. Anthony Behar | Sipa USA/ AP Photo

This piece was originally posted during the aftermath of the Paris attacks last November. Today’s attacks in Brussels underscore that the front line in the war on terror begins with border security and reforming our suicidal immigration policies so that we do not follow in the footsteps of Europe.

As we ominously watch European cities like Brussels and Paris beleaguered by a growing population of homegrown radical Islamists, we must ask what our government is doing to prevent the United States from following the same trajectory. As noted a number of times, our immigration from countries infected with radical Islam has doubled in recent years, totaling over 1.6 million from 2001-2013.

According to a new analysis from the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, chaired by Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL), this trajectory has grown sharply just over the five most recent years. Counting all of the green cards issued to foreign nationals of predominantly Muslim countries between FY 2009 and FY 2013 alone, the subcommittee found that 680,000 individuals have been granted legal permanent residence in America. That is a larger number than the population of our nation’s capital.

This coincides with census data analyzed by the Center for Immigration Studies, which estimates a 415,784 net increase in the population of nationals from predominantly Muslim countries living in the U.S from 2010-2014. If net population growth, which is mitigated by deaths and emigration grew by that much, it makes sense that the initial migration numbers have been much higher. One could only imagine what the numbers would be had Marco Rubio gotten his way and successfully passed the Gang of 8 immigration bill.

In recent years, most estimates pegged annual Muslim immigration at roughly 100,000 per year, but this analysis suggests that the trend is growing to more than 10% of our annual intake. Remember, there is only an estimated 630,000 Muslims in the entire country of Belgium, and yet, they are in lockdown and have rampant problems of homegrown terror. We have admitted more Muslims to the U.S. in five years alone. And all indications point to the fact that the trend is growing every year because immigration from Muslim countries is the fastest growing of all parts of the world.

It's a rainy night in Brooklyn but still a great turnout for #USCIS Outreach event in Urdu pic.twitter.com/1hi5cgrPcW — USCIS (@USCIS) November 19, 2015

While the overall size of our country is obviously much larger than European countries, making the overall assimilation problems less impactful, the numbers still matter when calculating the percentage of those likely to become radicalized and the number of potential terrorists we are cultivating here at home.

Shouldn’t we focus first on assimilating those already here and counteracting the growing homegrown radicalization before we expand upon the already record-high baseline of immigration from countries that are so infected with Islamic supremacism?

The American people clearly get it. According to a new poll conducted by McLaughlin & Associates, 84% of Americans believe immigration from the Middle East is very or somewhat dangerous. These sentiments are shared by 75% of Democrats, 80% of Blacks, and 90% of Hispanics. The poll also found that just 25% of Americans and 38% of Democrats want to bring in Syrian refugees.

The question for Republican politicians next week as they debate the funding for refugees in the Omnibus bill is will they take yes for an answer from the American people.


====================
Paige on the young WWE Diva with the most promise, who should win WWE Tough Enough on the female side, the tough transition the Tough Enough winners have ahead of them

2015-08-15 13:25:40 Busted Open satellite radio show with Paige

Host: Dave Lagreca, Doug Mortman, and Larry Dallas

Airs on Sirius 92 and XM 92 On HHH's influence on the Diva's Revolution: Just seeing him come in and completely take what was then called FCW like under his wing and make it into this huge brand to the point where it sold out in Brooklyn – 15,000 people are coming to watch NXT – that's mind blowing ... and it's all because of that guy. He really wanted to make it a success and he really did, especially with the Divas. He really did give the Divas a chance in NXT – like me and Emma, the first network show that we did – he really gave us a chance on there and it just progressed. He killed it. He knocked it out of the park with it. We're all extremely thankful for the opportunity that he gave every single one of us. On which young Diva has the most promise: Paige: Even though she's on the opposing team, I would say Sasha Banks. I'm a huge fan of hers. And I've always said it. I've always said Sasha Banks. She's just the full package to me. She can promo, she can wrestle, she looks good ... she definitely shows the most, I think. On whether she sees either of the remaining two Divas on Tough Enough becoming a big name in NXT and eventually the main WWE roster: As much as I like Sara Lee, and everyone thinks I pick on her, I would have to say Amanda – and it's not being biased because you know how I'm like with both of them, I'm brutally honest with both of them. Amanda is kind of the full package too – she can talk, she's really starting to get things in the ring, and she's really embracing that heel role that she's got going on. She really doesn't care what people think of her and that's cool to me, I like that, she doesn't care about being liked or not. She's not afraid of being different, she's not afraid to be herself. She does great in the ring. She takes control as well, especially with her and Sara's match she really took control of it. That's cool. I like that about her. On the winners of Tough Enough and their eventual transition to the NXT roster: (laughs) It's definitely going to be hard transition for them because they're going to have to start working extra hard ... especially because there are a lot of people on NXT that have worked their whole lives to get where they are. To be honest with you, they do work hard, but they're doing it on a reality show and then they get handed the contract at the end of the day. I can see a few jealous people [in NXT] but everyone is cool and cordial and they'll be fine. RECOMMEND THIS ARTICLE:

READ OUR INSIDER NEWS BEFORE ANYONE ELSE! BECOME A MEMBER FOR JUST $7.50 A MONTH (or less with a year-long sub) - GET THE FIRST LOOK AT EXCLUSIVE INSIDER DOT NET NEWS, TONS OF EXCLUSIVE AUDIO CONTENT, MEMBER MESSAGE BOARD ACCESS, START YOUR OWN BLOG, AND VIEW THE SITE WITHOUT ANY ADVERTISING: SIGN ME UP (or MORE INFO) Email This Article | Printer Friendly Page | Back to Main Listing

RELATED ARTICLES FROM MGID AFFILIATE SITES... Loading... From Around the Web


====================
Sabering Champagne has always been swathed in a sheath of unobtainium. This is most likely because not all of us have a sword just lying around. Here’s how to saber Champagne with something we all have access to: a butter knife.

Never underestimate the power of basic kitchen utensils.

See the spoon? In the first portion of the video we use a spoon to saber Champagne.

Step by Step Guide to Sabering Champagne

Do please be careful! Make sure you use extra-cold sparkling wine (and don’t use Prosecco).

Chill Champagne to reduce pressure –we put the bottles in the freezer for one hour Completely remove Champagne foil Reposition cage carefully to first lip just to be safe Choose Your saber –we used a spoon and a butter knife Hold Champagne at 45° angle Slide saber in a smooth motion along the seam of bottle

Tips on the Saber Method Follow sage advice and be certain that your bottles are ice cold. Champagne is under 5–7 atmospheres of pressure and heat increases pressure. A failed attempt may involve exploding bottles… which would be lame on multiple fronts.

Want to know the normal way to open Champagne? Check out the right way to open Champagne confidently and safely.

Why not Prosecco? Well, Prosecco is made with a different method than Champagne, Cava, and Crémant. It has only about 3 atmospheres and thus, tends to be a dud.

Safety Warning Be careful. Don’t poke your eye out attempting to saber Champagne.
====================
Russian President Vladimir Putin says it is “necessary to finally rid Russia of the shame and tragedies” of political killings following the murder of former deputy prime minister Boris Nemtsov.

Putin’s televised remarks to the interior ministry come several days after Nemtsov was fatally shot on Friday, the BBC reports. Nemtsov had been a vocal opponent of Russia’s role in the in eastern Ukraine conflict and said he worried the president would have him killed because of his criticism. Putin’s aides have denied the Kremlin’s involvement.

“It is necessary to finally rid Russia of the shame and tragedies like the one that we lived through and saw quite recently,” Putin said. “I mean the murder, the brazen murder of Boris Nemtsov right in the center of the capital.”

The Russian President had previously called Nemtsov’s murder a “provocation,” a word that, as TIME’s Europe correspondent Simon Shuster has reported, carries more than one meaning:

To the average viewer of state-TV, Putin’s use of the term “provocation” would be enough to evoke the invisible hand of Russia’s enemies, while also hinting that the Kremlin, once provoked, could be justified in responding in unpredictable ways. Back in 1983, for instance, the Soviet Union claimed that its downing of a Korean airliner full of passengers was in fact the result of a blatant American provocation.

Putin has said he will work to bring Nemtsov’s assassins to justice. Meanwhile, Alexander Bortnikov, the head of Russia’s federal security service, told reporters curious about possible suspects Tuesday that “there are always suspects.”

[BBC]

Write to Nolan Feeney at nolan.feeney@time.com.
====================
Democratic hopeful Bernie Sanders heard something very familiar come out of Hillary Clinton's mouth when she smacked around Wall Street during her Nevada victory speech yesterday afternoon.

'Those are our words,' he said. 'We're looking into the copyright issues here,' the senator continued, laughing, as he sat down for an interview this morning with Meet the Press' Chuck Todd.

Sanders has made knocking bankers and billionaires central tenets of his campaign, but as he's become a more formidable challenger than Clinton expected, she's started singing that tune as well.

Scroll down for videos

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders noticed that Hillary Clinton started to sound a lot like him as she bashed Wall Street and dirty money in her Nevada victory speech yesterday

Bernie Sanders held his head up high after his six point loss to the former secretary of state, telling his supporters that he still had the 'momentum' and would win the Democratic nomination

That trend was especially evident yesterday.

Besides saying, 'Wall Street can never be allowed to threaten main street again. No bank can be too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail,' which was the clip that Todd played for Sanders, she also brought up Wall Street in the context of campaign finance reform.

That's an issue near and dear to the Sanders campaign.

'In the campaign you've heard a lot about Washington and Wall Street,' Clinton said, alluding to Sanders' complaints that she's too cozy with New York bankers. 'We all want to get secret unaccountable money out of politics that starts with appointing a new justice to the Supreme Court.'

Clinton also touted the 'vast majority' of donors who gave her less than $100, as Sanders has railed the former secretary of state for inheriting President Barack Obama's super PAC, while fueling his own campaign on donations that average $27.

'Well, obviously I think what the secretary has recognized is the American people are extremely angry about the power of Wall Street, the greed, the illegal behavior of Wall Street,' Sanders said this morning on Meet.

Yesterday, Sanders downplayed, Clinton's win in the Nevada caucuses, her first pronounced triumph, as she grabbed up about 53 percent of the vote to Sanders 47 percent.

Hillary Clinton thanked supporters yesterday in Las Vegas and blasted Wall Street in her remarks

'It is clear to me and to most observers that the wind is at our backs, we have the momentum,' Sanders said, noting how far down in the polls he was in the state just several weeks back.

'And I believe that when Democrats assemble in Philadelphia in July at that convention we are going to see the results of one of the great political upsets in the history of the United States,' Sanders stated.

Sanders blamed the loss on lower voter turnout than he had hoped for.

'As I understand it, we actually won the Latino vote yesterday, which is a big breakthrough for us,' he noted.

'And what I've said over and over again, we will do well when young people, when working-class people come out,' he said.

Sanders also suggested that Clinton got the best at him because she's ran this race before.

'But remember, we were taking on a candidate who ran in 2008. She knew Nevada a lot better than we did, she had the names of a lot of her supporters,' Sanders explained.

The Vermont senator said he was proud of the Nevada campaign. 'Obviously, I wish we could have done a little bit better, but at the end of the day, I think she gets 19 delegates, we get 15 delegates.'
====================
Bridge

Bridge is a mechanical structure that lets you walk out into the middle of a body of water with nothing connecting you to shore. You walk on steps that rise up out of the water in front of you and disappear back under behind you. You can only go to the middle, there is no way back from there except to turn round carefully and return the way you came. The mechanism has no power, it's driven by the weight of the person on it. So far I've only made it indoors in galleries, but it's ultimate ambition is to exist in a permanent installation in a lake.

Beginning work on Bridge was a turning point in my practice, it was the first project I'd made that I felt unequivocally was worthwhile. Everything I'd done until I then made me feel uneasy. I'd made successful projects that were well received but I was painfully aware that I was a participant in a culture of appearances and acquisition that I was deeply perturbed by. Bridge encompassed all my best aspirations. It's almost ten years now since I started working on it, but I still feel exactly the same.

You might ask why it's in my "current projects" section given that the pictures are from 2006, that's simple; it's because it's not finished and I'm still working on it. I obsess about this project. I lie awake at night and think about how to make it work better, how to get the money and where to put it. I save up my cash to pay for it and I always have a new prototype mechanism in my workshop.
====================
ESPN.com

Next Sunday is the 20th anniversary of the Gatorade Dunk. So with the dunkers, the New York Giants, playing the dunkee, Bill Parcells and the Dallas Cowboys this week, we're flashing back to the moment. The following is an excerpt from the new book, "First in Thirst: How Gatorade Turned The Science of Sweat Into A Cultural Phenomenon," (AMACOM) by ESPN.com sports business reporter Darren Rovell.

THE "TIPPING" POINT

On a warm August night in 2003, Wagener-Salley High School football coach Steve DeRiggs never thought he would get the chills.



Amazon.com

After a 12-game losing streak that extended back to October 2001, the seniors who played on his high school team had almost forgotten what winning felt like. But they hadn't forgotten how every important victory should be celebrated.

Following the War Eagles' 34-0 victory, DeRiggs' players gave him something that every coach has now come to expect, yet can't evade, after that big win. Call it a dunk, a bath, a splash or a shower, but almost all important wins are accompanied by a coach getting soaked.

In the past two decades, the dumping of the Gatorade cooler on the coach has become a tradition at every level of sports. During every fall weekend, a Gatorade dunking probably happens on a football field in every state, and the reporting of the event gives the brand thousands of free media mentions and impressions every year. It has reached a point in which coaches of all sports -- including tennis, basketball, soccer and baseball -- have received the ice cold shower.

THE INAUGURAL DUNK

What happened at Wagener-Salley in South Carolina would not have occurred if New York Giants nose guard Jim Burt hadn't decided to seek revenge on his coach, Bill Parcells, in 1985.

The Giants were 3-3 that year, and Parcells, leading up to a game against the archrival Washington Redskins, was trying to motivate Burt.

"The whole week Coach Parcells was telling him how [Redskins offensive lineman] Jeff Bostic was going to eat him up, and it infuriated Jim," said teammate Harry Carson.

So Burt decided on a unique way to both celebrate and get back at his coach after their 17-3 victory over the Redskins. He grabbed the Gatorade cooler, which was still full of the liquid, and poured it on Parcells as time expired.

"I was the only one who had the guts to do it without knowing what his reaction was going to be," Burt said.

Burt's teammates were shocked. The first recorded bath was seen almost as a sign of disrespect. The next week, Burt let Carson in on the act. They waited until Parcells took his headphones off, then doused him with the orange-colored drink in the orange cooler.

"You have to remember that we are talking about a ritual, however charming, that's essentially the public demeaning of a football coach, and football coaches are not traditionally tolerant of such behavior," wrote Washington Post columnist Tony Kornheiser.

But once it became clear that the Gatorade shower was really a sign of affection that defined the bond between a player and his coach, it became a tradition for the Giants, whose coach actually smiled the first time he was hit with it.

"It's like when you were in school and always used to pick on the chubby guys," Burt told Joan Rivers on her show, when asked about the tradition. "That was sort of what we were doing, picking on the chubby guy."

The following season, the stunt caught on nationally in a serendipitous marketing coup that was too good to be true for those who worked on the Gatorade brand.

The Giants lost their season opener to the Cowboys 31-28. The next week, New York beat San Diego 20-7, and at the end of the game, Parcells was once again left soaking wet, although Burt was no longer part of the equation. He thought the act had lost its originality. But Carson took it upon himself to keep it going.

"Coach Parcells was very superstitious," Carson said. "If we did something one week and it worked, we did it again. So I kept the Gatorade showers coming, and by the end I think he started to look forward to it."



AP Bill Parcells gets the Gatorade treatment at the end of Super Bowl XXI.

Parcells didn't mind the showers at all.

"It's fun," Parcells said. "If you have fun, fine. It's not all life and death."

After each victory, Parcells welcomed the baths. Most of the time, the television cameras would focus on Carson and Parcells in the waning minutes of the game, so that viewers wouldn't miss the moment they had come to expect.

The media loved the display. Along with television commentators mentioning it, newspaper writers filled their columns with mentions, even noting the time left in the game when the dunk occurred. The required photo along with each Giants victory was, of course, the one of Parcells getting doused.

The Giants finished the regular season 14-2, and even during their week off between the regular season and the playoffs, Gatorade got its exposure. That's because Ahmad Rashad snuck up behind Carson (the guest commentator on CBS's NFL Today show) and dumped a Gatorade bucket full of shredded paper on him.

CARSON AND PARCELLS GET PAID

Interestingly, Gatorade had no interaction with either Carson or Parcells until the playoffs came.

On Jan. 4, 1987, Bill Schmidt, Gatorade's head of sports marketing at the time, sat down on his couch to watch the Giants play Joe Montana and the San Francisco 49ers. Many people had told him about the Gatorade dunk, but he hadn't caught a glimpse of it yet.

Towards the end of the game, in which the Giants prevailed 49-3 and in the process, advanced to the NFC Championship game, Carson went to the Gatorade bucket, with the cameras following his every move.

"[Announcer] John Madden was circling the Gatorade coolers showing how they do this thing," Schmidt said. "I'm thinking, 'What the hell? I think I've died and gone to heaven.'"

The next day, Schmidt held a meeting to discuss what the brand should do to respond to all the publicity it had received. Schmidt argued that it was best to do nothing, since the company had had nothing to do with it in the first place.

"If a marketer ever tried to create that [Gatorade dunk] moment, it would look fake and phony and contrived," said Tom Fox, currently senior vice president of sports marketing, who worked under Schmidt.

In fact, that had been tried. Burt said that another drink company called him up after they saw that he was the force behind it all and offered him money to dump their drink on Parcells. He passed.

But now that Schmidt had seen the Gatorade dunk with his own two eyes, he wanted to do something behind the scenes.

"At some point someone was going to ask Coach Parcells if he heard from Gatorade," Schmidt said.

So Schmidt sent a letter to Carson and Parcells. Enclosed in each was a $1,000 Brooks Brothers gift certificate.



AP Pete Carroll has gotten a Gatorade bath, too.

"We at The Quaker Oats Company, makers of Gatorade Thirst Quencher, realize that due to the yearlong 'Gatorade dunking' you have been receiving, your wardrobe has probably taken a beating," Schmidt wrote to Parcells. "The enclosed should help remedy the problem; after all, we do feel somewhat responsible for your cleaning bill."

Two days later, Parcells sent a letter back to Schmidt.

"It will be put to good use, and I certainly hope that I'll be getting a few more Gatorade dunkings this year," Parcells wrote.

Despite his anticipation, the next week he begged Carson not to dunk him at the end of the NFC Championship game against the Redskins, claiming it was too cold outside. Carson wouldn't have any of it. Parcells was toast.

The grand stage for the Gatorade bath came two weeks later at Super Bowl XXI in Pasadena, Calif.

Parcells had been doused with more than 80 gallons of Gatorade during the course of the season and fans in the stands even had their Gatorade-themed signs, including one that said "Gatorade me," and even homemade Gatorade dunk buttons. It was truly a marketer's dream.

The last batch dumped on Parcells was the sweetest. After a 39-20 victory over the Denver Broncos and the 17th and final Gatorade bath of the season, the Giants were crowned champions. The final dunk of the 1986-87 season was named No. 27 on ESPN.com's list of Top 100 Super Bowl moments, compiled in 2002.

"When the season was over, the reaction was pretty phenomenal," said Schmidt, whose company made commemorative Gatorade dunk shirts that were sold for $10. "We had corporations in New York who wanted to get their hands on a cooler for their annual meeting so that they could dunk their CEO who had a good year."

Thanks to the national reaction to the Giants, Schmidt decided he'd take care of Parcells and Carson when the season concluded. He gave Parcells $120,000 over a three-year period and did a $20,000 deal with Carson, so that they could include him on a "How to Dunk" poster that was inserted into all the coolers the company sent out.

"It was cheap advertising for Gatorade," Carson said.

WHO REALLY DUNKED FIRST?

Parcells and Carson will always be associated with Gatorade. Carson had a 13-year career that included nine Pro Bowls, but today, the most common photograph he is asked to autograph at card shows is that of him throwing Gatorade on Parcells.

Carson often gets the credit, even though Jim Burt was the actual inventor -- or so we thought. That was until 1999, when Chicago Bears Hall of Fame defensive lineman Dan Hampton claimed that he actually executed the first dunk. This prompted a reporter for the Daily Herald in Chicago to review a video of the game between the Bears and the Minnesota Vikings in Week 13 of the 1984 season.

With time still on the clock but the Bears safely assured of clinching the NFC Central division title, Steve McMichael held Bears coach Mike Ditka while Hampton and fellow teammate Mike Singletary moved in.

"I stood in front of him as the game was still going on, and he was protesting, 'Get away from me,'" McMichael wrote in his recently published book. "He couldn't figure out why I was talking to him when he was trying to run a game. I actually had to grab his shoulders and hold him, and Dan came from behind and just doused him. That's when the Gatorade baths started."[1]

Perhaps Hampton's mistake was that he and his teammates didn't perform the act again when the Bears thrashed the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl that same year.

"What were we going to say?" Hampton said to the Daily Herald. "We should have been back there in 1986 winning our second straight Super Bowl. Were we going to whine about the Gatorade thing?"[2]

[1] Arvia, Phil and Steve McMichael. "Steve McMichael's Tales from the Chicago Bears sideline." Sports Publishing. Pg. 75-76., 2004.

[2] Rozner, Barry. "Hampton robbed of credit for inventing 'Gatorade Dunk.' Daily Herald. Nov. 25, 1999. Pg. 1

Excerpted from First in Thirst: How Gatorade Turned The Science of Sweat Into A Cultural Phenomenon by Darren Rovell. Copyright 2006 Darren Rovell. Published by AMACOM books, a division of American Management Association, New York, NY. Used with permission. All rights reserved. http://www.amacombooks.org.


====================
Responding to the most popular inquiry on the "Open for Questions" feature of his website, Barack Obama said on Sunday that he is "evaluating" whether or not to investigate potential crimes of the Bush administration, but that he was inclined to "look forward as opposed to looking backwards."

The answer was delivered during an interview to This Week With George Stephanopoulos. But the question itself has been weeks in the work.

The Obama transition team, as part of its efforts to open up the political process, had allowed web users to vote on questions for the incoming administration to field. To the top rose a query from Bob Fertik, president of Democrats.com, asking whether the incoming administration would appoint a special prosecutor to "independently investigate the greatest crimes of the Bush administration, including torture and warrantless wiretapping."

On Obama's website, a December statement from Vice President-elect Joe Biden on the topic was offered as a response (similar older statements were used to address several other national security-related questions, which the transition team has avoided discussing). But Stephanopoulos made the matter moot by posing the question directly to the president-elect.

"We're still evaluating how we're going to approach the whole issue of interrogations, detentions, and so forth," said Obama. "And obviously we're going to look at past practices. And I don't believe that anybody is above the law. On the other hand, I also have a belief that we need to look forward as opposed to looking backwards. And part of my job is to make sure that for example at the CIA, you've got extraordinarily talented people who are working very hard to keep Americans safe. I don't want them to suddenly feel like they've got to spend all their time looking over their shoulders and lawyering up."



Pressed a bit -- was he ruling out prosecution? -- the president-elect suggested that decision would be that of his attorney general.

"I think my general view when it comes to my attorney general is that he's the people's lawyer. Eric Holder's been nominated," said Obama. "His job is to uphold the Constitution and look after the interests of the American people, not be swayed by my day-to-day politics. So ultimately, he's going to be making some calls. But my general belief is that when it comes to national security, what we have to focus on is getting things right in the future as opposed to looking at what we got wrong in the past."

I asked Fertik to share his thoughts on the president-elect's answer. This is what he had to say:

It's absurd to talk about "upholding the Constitution" and say "no one is above the law" if you refuse to look "back" at those who have subverted the Constitution and broken the law. And you can't have one set of rules for "national security" and a different set of rules for everything else. So if there's any hope for prosecution in Obama's answer, it is that Attorney General Eric Holder will truly be "the people's lawyer" and fully represent us by prosecuting torturers, wiretappers, and other criminals who committed their crimes from secret undisclosed locations hidden within the Bush-Cheney administration.

One more thing that is worth noting. As pointed out by Think Progress, Dawn Johnsen, Obama's choice to lead the Office of Legal Counsel, has said that the next president should avoid "any temptation to simply move on." Here is the relevant quote:

We must avoid any temptation simply to move on. We must instead be honest with ourselves and the world as we condemn our nation's past transgressions and reject Bush's corruption of our American ideals. Our constitutional democracy cannot survive with a government shrouded in secrecy, nor can our nation's honor be restored without full disclosure.
====================
My roommate tricked me today when he brought in a giant package and yelled "Hey Mr. Reddit, you got a package." I said, "Holy shit that's huge!" Then he handed me a little envelope on top. The big package was for him.

So I'm wondering what is in my envelope, when I flip it over and see "MADe with cleverness. Hope you Like." Now I was excited to see what was inside, knowing that my SS put time into making something for me.

I opened up the envelope and poured 4 home made pins into my hand. They are really cool, and my SS clearly took a look at my blog that I had linked my profile to. One is of the Reddit alien, one of a mummy (I assume for my like of horror films), one for Friday the 13th (as I had posted my 8 film marathon of the series after I got the collectors box of them all), and one that has a bunch of different creature from one of my favorite cartoons ever, "Dr. Seuss's Halloween is Grinch Night"!

It was a very cool gift, and it's always awesome to have something that was made specifically for you. Plus, on the back of the Jason Voorhees mask was "Merry xmas jason", as my name is actually Jason, too.

This was a great introduction to this whole secret santa thing for me, and I'll definitely be participating in as many of these exchanges as possible now.
====================
Public opinion appears to be changing about same-sex marriage, as are the nation's laws. Of course this change is just one in a larger constellation. America's views on family, love, sexuality generally, tolerance, God, and so much more seems to be pushing in directions that put Bible-believing Christians on the defensive.

It's easy to feel like we've become the new “moral outlaws,” to use Al Mohler's phrase. Standing up for historic Christian principles will increasingly get you in trouble socially and maybe economically, perhaps one day also criminally. It's ironic that Christians are told not to impose their views on others, even as the threat of job loss or other penalties loom over Christians for not toeing the new party line.

In all this, Christians are tempted to become panicked or to speak as alarmists. But to the extent we do, to that same extent we show we've embraced an unbiblical and nominal Christianity.

Here, then, are seven principles for surviving the very real cultural shifts we're presently enduring.

1. Remember that churches exist to work for supernatural change.

The whole Christian faith is based on the idea that God takes people who are spiritually dead and gives them new life. Whenever we evangelize, we are evangelizing the cemetery.

There's never been a time or a culture when it was natural to repent of your sins. That culture doesn't exist, it hasn't existed, it never will exist. Christians, churches, and pastors especially must know deep in their bones that we've always been about a work that's supernatural.

From that standpoint, recent cultural changes have made our job zero percent harder.

2. Understand that persecution is normal.

In the last few months I've been preaching through John's Gospel, and a number of people have thanked me for bringing out the theme of persecution. But I'm not convinced my preaching has changed; I think people's ears have changed. Recent events in the public square have caused people to become concerned about what's ahead for Christians. But if you were to go back and listen to my old sermons—say, a series preached in the 1990s on 1 Peter— you'd discover that ordinary biblical exposition means raising the topic of persecution again and again.

Persecution is what Christians face in this fallen world. It's what Jesus promised us (e.g., John 16).

Now, it may be that in God's providence some Christians find themselves in settings where, even if they devote their lives to obeying Jesus, they won't encounter insult and persecution. But don't be fooled by the nice buildings in which so many churches meet. This Jesus we follow was executed as a state criminal.

One of my fellow pastors recently observed that, in the history of Christian persecution, it's often secondary issues—not the gospel—that elicit persecution. Persecutors don't say, “You believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ; I'm going to persecute you now.” Rather, some belief or practice we maintain as Christians contradicts what people want or threatens their way of seeing the world. And so they oppose us.

Again, to the extent we respond to changes in our culture either with panic or alarmism, to that same extent we contradict the Bible's teaching about ordinary Christian discipleship. It shows we've traded on the normalcy of nominalism.

Pastors especially should set the example in teaching their congregations not to play the victim. We should salt into our regular preaching and praying the normalcy of persecution. It's the leader's work to prepare churches for how we can follow Jesus, even if it means social criticism, or loss of privilege, or financial penalties, or criminal prosecution.

3. Eschew utopianism.

Christians should be a people of love and justice, and that means we should always strive to make our little corner of the globe a bit nicer than how we found it, whether that's a kindergarten classroom or a kingdom. But even as we work for the sake of love and justice, we must remember we're not going to transform this world into the kingdom of our Christ.

God hasn't commissioned us to make this world perfect; he's commissioned us chiefly to point to the One who will one day make it perfect, even as we spend our lives loving and doing good. If you're tempted to utopianism, please observe that Scripture doesn't allow it, and that the history of utopianism has a track record of distracting and deceiving even some of Christ's most zealous followers.

It's good to feel sadness over the growing approval given to sin in our day. But one of the reasons many Christians in America feel disillusionment over current cultural changes is that we've been somewhat utopian in our hopes. Again, to the extent you think and speak as an alarmist, to that same extent you demonstrate that utopian assumptions may have been motivating you all along.

4. Make use of our democratic stewardship.

I would be sad if anyone concluded from my comments that it doesn't matter what Christians do publicly or with the state. Paul tells us to submit to the state. But in our democratic context, part of submitting to the state means sharing in its authority. And if we have a share in its authority, we just might have, to some extent, a share in its tyranny. To neglect the democratic process, so long as it's in our hands, is to neglect a stewardship.

We cannot create Utopia, but that doesn't mean we cannot be good stewards of what we have, or that we cannot use the democratic processes to bless others. For the sake of love and justice, we should make use of our democratic stewardship.

5. Trust the Lord, not human circumstances.

There's never been a set of circumstances Christians cannot trust God through. Jesus beautifully trusted the Father through the cross “for the joy set before him” (Heb. 12:2). Nothing you and I will face will amount to what our King had to suffer.

We can trust him. He will prove trustworthy through everything we might have to endure. And as we trust him, we will bear a beautiful testimony of God's goodness and power, and we will bring him glory.

6. Remember that everything we have is God's grace.

We must remember anything we receive less than hell is dancing time for Christians. Right? Everything a Christian has is all of grace. We need to keep that perspective so that we aren't tempted to become too sour toward our employers, our friends, our family members, and our government when they oppose us.

How was Paul able to sing in prison? He knew that of which he'd been forgiven. He knew the glory that awaited him. He perceived and prized these greater realities.

7. Rest in the certainty of Christ's victory.

The gates of hell will not prevail against the church of Jesus Christ. We need not fear and tremble as if Satan has finally, after all these millennia, gained the upper hand in his opposition to God through the same-sex marriage lobby.

“Oh, we might finally lose it here!” No, not a chance.

People around the world now and throughout history have suffered far more than Christians in America presently do. And we don't assume Satan had the upper hand there, do we?

Each nation and age has a unique way to express its depravity, to attack God. But none will succeed any more than the crucifixion succeeded in defeating Jesus. Yes, he died. But three days later he got up from the dead.

Christ's kingdom is in no danger of failing. Again, Christians, churches, and especially pastors must know this deeply in our bones. D-Day has happened. Now it's cleanup time. Not one person God has elected to save will fail to be saved because the secular agenda is “winning” in our time and place. There shouldn't be anxiety or desperation in us.

We may not be able to out-argue others. They may not be persuaded by our books and articles. But we can love them with the supernatural love God has shown to us in Christ. And we can make his Word known today—with humility, with confidence, and with joy.
====================
Tango appeared on screen on BBC1's Question Time as David Dimbleby, politicians and pundits discussed topics as diverse as the wearing of burkhas, the situation in Iran and MP's expenses.

The cat strolled into the studio as the show was being broadcast from Newquay, Cornwall, on Thursday evening.

Recording was underway Tango crept in through a back door, ducked under a television mixing desk and made his way under the assembled seating.

Guests included Jim Knight, Minister for employment and welfare reform, Pauline Neville-Jones, Conservative shadow security minister, and Kelvin MacKenzie, former editor of The Sun

Tango appeared on set strolling around the back of the panel unnoticed or ignored by all except local Liberal Democrat MP Julia Goldsworthy.

A stage manager then grabbed the cat and returned him to the outdoors.

Ms Ellery, a mother-of-two who works in the school canteen and lives nearby, was watching Question Time from the comfort of her living room when the one-year-old tom appeared on screen.

"My friend phoned me up to say 'have you seen your cat on the telly", she said. "I'd been doing something else at the time but rewound it and there he was.

"It's lovely - he's a mischievous cat anyway and because we live so close to the school he's often in school grounds. The sixth formers know him really well. He must have known something was going on."

Since his fleeting appearance on television, Tango has had people discussing his antics on the social networking website Twitter.
====================
TruTV just approved a new feature-length documentary and television series pilot from comedian Hari Kondabolu.

Deadline announced the upcoming programs yesterday (May 10) alongside a fleet of other comedy specials, pilots and series orders. The documentary, operating under the working title “The Problem with Apu,” will focus on “Apu Nahasapeemapetilon,” the controversial Indian convenience store owner from “The Simpsons.”

Per Deadline: “Through this comedic cultural exposé, Kondabolu questions how this controversial caricature was created, burrowed its way into the the hearts and minds of Americans and continues to exist–intact–twenty-six years later.”

The documentary will premiere this fall. And Kondabolu, who famously created #BobbyJindalIsSoWhite, will also helm a still-untitled pilot for a recurring comedy series.

Kondabolu, a former immigrant rights organizer, previously wrote for FX’s “Totally Biased with W. Kamau Bell.” He criticized Apu in one of the show’s segments about South Asians in Western media, which you can see below.
====================
Study Enrollment

The Contraceptive CHOICE Project was a prospective cohort study involving 9256 St. Louis area girls and women 14 to 45 years of age, in which the use of LARC methods was promoted to reduce unintended pregnancy.16 Participants were recruited through referral from medical providers, word of mouth, and study flyers. The Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis Human Research Protection Office approved the study protocol before recruitment began, and all participants provided written informed consent. Participants 14 to 17 years of age provided written assent, and a parent or guardian provided written consent. Minors could enroll under a waiver of parental consent if they did not know the whereabouts of their parents or guardians or if they did not want their parents or guardians to know that they were seeking contraception. We enrolled four minors using the waiver.

Women and adolescent girls were eligible to participate in CHOICE if they were English-speaking or Spanish-speaking, resided in the St. Louis region or sought contraceptive services in selected community clinics, had no desire for pregnancy for at least 12 months, were sexually active or planning to be sexually active with a male partner during the next 6 months, and were not using a contraceptive method or were willing to switch to a new, reversible contraceptive method. Women and adolescent girls were ineligible if they had undergone a hysterectomy or sterilization procedure.

Study Design

CHOICE provided standardized contraceptive counseling to study participants regarding commonly used reversible contraceptive methods.17 Methods were presented in order from most to least effective, and the potential side effects, risks, and benefits of each method were reviewed. Participants were provided with their chosen method at their enrollment session in accordance with evidence-based clinical guidelines.18,19 If medical contraindications did not allow for same-day insertion of a LARC device (e.g., if pregnancy could not be ruled out definitively or if the participant had active cervicitis), participants received a shorter-acting method, such as oral contraceptive pills or depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) injection, until their chosen method could be initiated. During the enrollment session, study staff performed a baseline interview, and participants were screened for sexually transmitted infections.

Participants were followed for 2 to 3 years, depending on their enrollment date. Telephone interviews were administered by study staff at 3 and 6 months and every 6 months thereafter. Participants received a $10 gift card after every completed follow-up survey. During the baseline and follow-up surveys, we collected detailed information regarding demographic characteristics and reproductive history, including contraceptive method use and satisfaction, sexual behavior, and pregnancy.

This analysis involves the 1404 adolescents who enrolled in CHOICE between 14 and 19 years of age, from 2007 through 2011; 716 teens were followed for 3 years, and 688 teens were followed for 2 years. At each follow-up survey, we asked participants if they had had a pregnancy. Participants who contacted study staff outside a scheduled survey or came to the clinic with concerns about possible pregnancy completed a urine pregnancy test. We recorded all pregnancies in a pregnancy log and documented the contraceptive method used at the time of conception. If the outcome of the pregnancy was known at the time of the survey (e.g., birth, miscarriage, or abortion), it was documented in the pregnancy log. If a participant was currently pregnant, we subsequently contacted her to record the pregnancy outcome.

Study Outcomes

The primary outcomes of the study were the rates of pregnancy, live birth, and induced abortion observed among participants who were 15 to 19 years of age at any time during study participation. We compared the rates in the CHOICE cohort with the most recent available rates among all U.S. teens 15 to 19 years of age, from 2010,1 and hypothesized that the rates in CHOICE would be lower than the national rates. Because the U.S. rates represent all teenage girls and women 15 to 19 years of age, including those who are and those who are not sexually experienced, we also compared the CHOICE rates with the national rates reported among sexually experienced teenage girls and women in 2008 (the most recent available data).20 In addition, we examined rates according to age and race as secondary outcomes. All analyses of rates of pregnancy, live birth, and induced abortion; teen-years of use of contraceptive methods; and failure rates of contraceptive methods included data collected when members of the cohort were 15 to 19 years of age.

Statistical Analysis

We used frequencies, percentages, medians, and ranges to describe the demographic and reproductive characteristics of the participants at the time of study enrollment. A chi-square test was performed for categorical data, and a Wilcoxon two-sample test was performed for continuous data that was not normally distributed.

For this analysis, we calculated annual means and 95% confidence intervals for rates of pregnancy, live birth, and induced abortion from 2008 through 2013, because the number of pregnancies and pregnancy outcomes that occurred among teenage CHOICE participants each year was small. Each rate represents the total number of events (i.e., pregnancy, birth, or abortion) that occurred among the participants divided by the total amount of time contributed from 2008 through 2013. For a pregnancy to be considered in the analysis, the outcome of the pregnancy (i.e., birth or abortion, for the purposes of this study) had to occur before 20 years of age. This is the same approach used by the National Center for Health Statistics in calculating U.S. rates.1 We calculated the time contributed by each participant during which she was not pregnant. If at the last survey the participant reported she had not been pregnant since the previous contact, we subtracted 6 weeks of contributed time to account for the possibility of an early-stage and unknown pregnancy. For a participant who had a pregnancy, we subtracted the total time she was pregnant plus 1 month if she delivered, to account for postpartum infecundity. For participants who were lost to follow-up, the last date of contact was the cutoff point for outcomes and contributed time. All analyses were performed with the use of Stata software, version 11 (StataCorp).
====================
A new report from Ontario Power Generation overwhelmingly affirms the utility’s long-held position that the best place for a nuclear-waste bunker is on the Lake Huron shoreline. One of the biggest problems with burying the hazardous waste somewhere else would come from having to truck it up to 2,000 kilometres, increasing the risk of radiological accidents and pollution, the 143-page analysis concludes.

Rows of chambers holding intermediate-level radioactive waste in shallow pits at the Bruce Power nuclear complex near Kincardine, Ontario. A new report from Ontario Power Generation affirms the utility’s long-held position that the best place for a nuclear-waste bunker is on the Lake Huron shoreline. ( John Flesher / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS )

The only minor advantage — amid a sea of disadvantages — to locating a bunker elsewhere might be less disturbance of Indigenous heritage sites, such as burial grounds, the report finds. Even so, the overall impact on Indigenous peoples will probably be lower if the deep geologic repository is built, as proposed, at the Bruce nuclear plant near Kincardine, the report states. “There is the potential that the total risk may be increased on Indigenous peoples if the (facility) is constructed at an alternate location,” the report states. “This (is) due to the introduction of a new facility in an area previously without a nuclear facility, as well as the transportation of wastes to that facility.”

Article Continued Below

Read more: Survey showing support for nuclear waste bunker near Lake Huron ‘misleading’ Moving site of nuclear-waste bunker an expensive and risky project, OPG says Alternative nuclear burial sites would be cost-prohibitive, adding anywhere from $381 million to more than $2 billion to the current cost projection of $2.4 billion, the report states. The new study comes in response to a request from the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency, which has yet to make a final recommendation to Environment Minister Catherine McKenna on whether to approve the project. The agency, along with critics of the proposal, had slammed OPG’s previous report on feasible alternative locations as superficial and inadequate.

The new study did not actually pinpoint any specific alternative sites. Instead, the analysis takes in large areas of the province that meet the minimal requirements for rock that would be geologically stable for centuries. Scores of groups and communities in both Canada and the U.S., have decried the current plan to store the waste underground about 1.2 kilometres from Lake Huron. OPG’s new report did little to assuage their concerns about the potential for catastrophic pollution of a major drinking-water source.

Article Continued Below

“OPG has not changed its position: proximity of the nuclear waste burial site to a Great Lake is not relevant, there is no need to investigate any other actual sites and OPG has a social licence to proceed,” the group Stop the Great Lakes Nuclear Dump said in a statement. By almost every measure, however, the new OPG report counters that concern, maintaining that the stable bedrock at the Bruce plant would be the perfect storage site. “Ideal geology exists for safely isolating nuclear waste 680 metres below ground in stable, dry rock,” OPG said in a statement accompanying the report. “Alternate locations in the Canadian Shield or southwest Ontario, while technically feasible, would result in greater environmental effects and higher costs, as well as a project delay of 15 years or more, while offering no additional benefits in safety.” The utility does admit in the report to facing ongoing pushback to the plan from area First Nations, particularly the Saugeen Ojibway Nation, which has long complained about the presence of the nuclear plant. The report says OPG has promised it would not move ahead with the project without their support. “For clarity and to avoid any confusion, OPG acknowledges that the affected Indigenous peoples have not accepted (the repository),” the report states. “OPG anticipates that through a respectful joint process and through accommodation, an acceptable outcome may be achieved.” The environmental assessment agency said it was reviewing the new information as it gets set to prepare a draft report, along with any conditions that OPG would have to meet if the project proceeds. The public will get a chance to comment on that report and conditions, the agency said. In May 2015, an environmental review panel approved the repository but the federal government has since delayed its decision several times.
====================
December 14, 2009 - Valve, creators of best-selling game franchises (such as Half-Life, Portal, Team Fortress, and Counter-Strike) and leading technologies (such as Steam and Source), today announced the first game add-on for its co-operative zombie thriller, Left 4 Dead 2 (L4D2), is in development and targeted for release in early 2010.Dubbed "The Passing," the first game add-on for L4D2 brings the original Left 4 Dead (L4D1) Survivors down south for a meeting with the L4D2 cast, while delivering new single-player, multiplayer and co-operative gameplay for the PC and Xbox 360.Targeted for release in early spring, "The Passing" takes place just after the Dead Center campaign of L4D2. Set in a small town in rural Georgia, players assume the role of the L4D2 Survivors as they meet with the L4D1 characters.In addition to the new co-operative campaign and associated narrative, "The Passing" will include new arenas for Survival, Versus and Scavenge mode and introduce a new co-operative challenge mode of play. The Passing will also include a new "uncommon common" zombie class, melee weapon, and firearm."The Passing will become the most important campaign in the Left 4 Dead story, as all the Survivors are being called together in one campaign," said Doug Lombardi, VP of marketing at Valve. "It will also be a huge offering of new gameplay content, with something new for every game mode plus a new uncommon common and weaponry."Exclusively available for the Xbox 360 and PC, L4D2 sets a new benchmark for co-operative action games. The title adds melee combat to enable deeper co-operative gameplay, with items such as a chainsaws, frying pans, axes, baseball bats, and more.With the AI Director 2.0, L4D's dynamic gameplay is taken to the next level by giving the Director the ability to procedurally change weather effects, world objects, and pathways in addition to tailoring the enemy population, effects, and sounds to match the players' performance. The result is a unique game session custom fitted to provide a satisfying and uniquely challenging experience each time the game is played.Finally, with new Survivors, boss zombies, weapons, and items, Left 4 Dead 2 offers a much larger game than the original, featuring more co-operative campaigns, more Versus campaigns, new Survival maps, and the new competitive game mode, Scavenge.Left 4 Dead 2: The Passing is targeted for release in early spring for the PC and Xbox 360. Pricing will be announced closer to launch.For more information, please visit www.l4d.com
====================
Culture warrior questions the faith of our senators

HE USED a closed-door meeting in 2004 to implore Christian conservatives to "win this culture war," and Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., has now gone public and personal with a religious-themed attack on colleagues in Congress.

Brownback named Washington's two senators in a letter that openly questions their faith and that of Catholic lawmakers who support pending pro-choice legislation.

"It is with Christian charity -- and in fraternal correction that we say to them: You can't be both Catholic and pro-Abortion," Brownback wrote in a fundraiser for a conservative group, Catholic Advocate.

The lawmakers deny the label and argue that the best way to reduce abortions is by teaching how to avoid unwanted pregnancies. But this view is inconsistent with the Book of Brownback.

"Real Catholics need a new voice -- not the likes of Ted Kennedy and Nancy Pelosi who have campaigned as Catholics while voting to undermine the values that we hold most dear," Brownback wrote. "The same can be said for the five 'Catholic' senators sponsoring the Freedom of Choice Act, namely Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.)."

The harshness comes in reaction to an exercise of choice in last November's election.

More Catholics voted for a defender of abortion rights, Barack Obama, than for the longtime (with lapses) anti-abortion Sen. John McCain.

Our country's Catholics have long resisted the "three d's" -- dogma, discipline and docility -- demanded by right-thinking co-religionists and some prelates.

Still, they do go to mass in far higher numbers than Catholics in post-Christian Europe.

As an Episcopalian, I'm watching from next door. My church hierarchy suffers from a quite opposite affliction -- an authoritarian liberalism (with New Age seasoning) intolerant toward traditionalists.

The presiding bishop barely mentioned Jesus in an ecology-themed Easter message. The church is affiliated with the Religious Coalition for Reproductive Rights, whose stand on such issues as partial-birth abortions doesn't reflect views of many faithful.

In the Catholic Church, the hierarchy assumes powers of command, with the Pope a successor to St. Peter. A number of ultraorthodox bishops, products of the John Paul II papacy, has threatened to deny communion to pro-choice Catholic politicians.

The most prominent cultural warrior in the hierarchy is Denver Archbishop Charles Chaput. In a recent Toronto lecture, Chaput took out after Obama and the Catholics who support him.

"President Obama is a man of intelligence and some remarkable gifts," said the archbishop. "He has a great ability to inspire. ... But whatever his strengths, there's no way to reinvent his record on abortion and related issues with rosy marketing about unity, hope and change."

After hoping Obama's attitude would "change," Chaput took out after co-religionists who support Obama.

The political situation for Catholics is difficult to discern because a "spirit of adulation bordering on servility already exists among some of the same Democratic-friendly Catholic writers, scholars, editors and activists who once accused pro-lifers of being too cozy with Republicans."

There can be a different take, namely that Chaput is condemning Catholics who obey their consciences rather than taking orders.

The Brownback letter was somewhat disavowed by his staff. They've asked Catholic Advocate not to use the senator's name in future mailings. Still, it shows what's wrong with the abortion debate in America.

It has evolved into demonizing mailings, on both sides, by lobby groups seeking to boost their budgets and raise their profiles in Washington, D.C. Orthodoxy is enforced, and dialogue discouraged, at both extremes.

At the annual March for Life last month in Washington, D.C., there was a glimmer of change in the pro-life camp. A group called Catholics United called the movement toward pragmatism, noting the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision stands after 36 years of efforts to repeal it.

"We support legal protections for the unborn, but focusing solely on that strategy has limited our effectiveness," James Salt, a spokesman for Catholics United, told The Washington Post.

An ecumenical group called Faith in Public Life took a poll recently that showed Catholics and evangelicals supportive of a "common ground" strategy of reducing unintended pregnancies, increasing aid to pregnant mothers and expanding adoptions.

Can such ground be found, ground assuring that fewer pregnancies are terminated and more children nurtured and loved?

Hope so. As to Brownback, the Senate's voice for life needs to receive a "fraternal correction" for voting against the State Children's Health Insurance Program.
====================
Then there is the alternative basis for empowering the ICC prosecutor: a state party to the ICC treaty (and there are presently 122) may require the prosecutor to investigate international crimes committed on its territory or by its people. Israel has refused to ratify the treaty, thereby depriving itself of a means to hold Hamas to account for rocket attacks and leaving the territory of Gaza (which it dubiously claims not to ''occupy'') an open question. Can the State of Palestine, were it to ratify the treaty, invoke an ICC investigation into war crimes in Gaza? In 2009 it attempted to do just that in seeking a remedy for ''Operation Cast Lead'', but the prosecutor refused to accept that it was enough of a state to be entitled to become a party to the treaty. However, in November 2012 the General Assembly accorded Palestine the status of statehood – as a non-member observer state, but a state nonetheless. It has since been permitted to become a state party to 13 international treaties. Might it now – today – accede to the ICC treaty and with the appropriate declarations under that treaty invite the prosecutor to investigate war crimes committed in the territory of Gaza since November 29, 2012?

It might. But why has it not done so already, or over the past 18 months? Because of the pressure brought to bear on President Mahmoud Abbas to refrain from doing so – most heavily from the US but also from Britain and France, whose diplomats claim that any prosecutions of either party for war crimes would undermine peace negotiations. This is nonsense, as all but diplomats must by now realise – their efforts over past decades have come to nought and the blood hatred reignited by the present war will scupper peace for the foreseeable future. Unless, and just possibly, some form of justice process is permitted to begin.

There is no alternative. The Human Rights Council (a body that tilts against Israel) promises to set up an independent inquiry but we have been there before. After Operation Cast Lead, its Goldstone enquiry castigated both sides. But its chairman then retracted the central finding (that Israel had a policy of targeting civilians) and its impact was weakened. There were no prosecutions of Hamas commanders, of course, and although Israel investigated allegations against 400 soldiers, just two were brought to trial; and the only prison sentence – of seven months – was imposed on a soldier for stealing a credit card.

The advantage of an ICC referral is that it would provide a strong incentive to both sides to punish their own criminals effectively, so as to forestall their indictment in The Hague. By bringing military leaders and the politicians who approve their conduct within the ''command responsibility'' net, there will be a disincentive to the commission of further crimes in the course of this ongoing conflict. Indictments, by spelling out particulars of the charges, will clarify that, for example, deliberately storing rockets in or near a school or hospital is a war crime, as is a decision to bomb that school or hospital in the knowledge that civilians are taking shelter there. Of course, there is a ''catch as catch can'' quality about international justice, as trials can only be held when alleged perpetrators are caught. But this can happen – after 17 years in the case of General Ratko Mladic – and even to heads of state.

There is also the need for new precedents in the law of war to limit the behaviour of modern army behemoths. The most wicked use of military might – ''Operation Searchlight'', conducted by depraved Pakistani generals in Dhaka in 1971 – has gone unpunished, although a few of its perpetrators are still alive. Everyone is wittering on about ''the law of proportionality'' but few understand it. Obviously it is ''disproportionate'' if 1400 (mainly civilians) are killed on one side, as against 50 soldiers on the other. But in war law the issue is defined as whether ''collateral damage'' to civilians by an attack on a military target (eg, a school where rockets are stored) is ''excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated''. This allows commanders to think they can get away with shelling the school because the destruction of the rockets gives their side a concrete advantage. A court conviction would bring home to them that no ''military advantage'' can ever justify the mass murder of children.
====================
KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Two weeks after a Malaysia Airlines airliner went missing with 239 people on board, officials are bracing for the “long haul” as searches by more than two dozen countries turn up little but frustration and fresh questions.

The international team hunting Flight MH370 in the remote southern Indian Ocean yielded no results on Friday, and Australia’s deputy prime minister said suspected debris there may have sunk.

Aircraft and ships have renewed the search in the Andaman Sea between India and Thailand, going over areas that have already been exhaustively swept to find some clue to unlock one of the biggest mysteries in modern aviation.

Malaysian officials have been realistic about their ability to lead the operation with a global dynamic that some have said is beyond the country’s technical capabilities and expertise.

“This continues to be a multinational effort coordinated by Malaysia, involving dozens of countries from around the world,” Malaysian Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said at a briefing on Friday.

Malaysia welcomed “all assistance to continue to follow all credible leads”, said Hishammuddin, who is also acting transport minister.

He said searchers were facing the “long haul” but were conscious that the clock was ticking. The plane’s “black box” voice and data recorder only transmits an electronic signal for about 30 days before its battery dies, after which it will be far more difficult to locate.

Investigators suspect the Boeing 777, which took off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing shortly after midnight on March 8, was deliberately diverted thousands of miles from its scheduled path. They say they are focusing on hijacking or sabotage but have not ruled out technical problems.

The search itself has strained ties between China and Malaysia, with Beijing repeatedly leaning on the Southeast Asian nation to step up its hunt and do a better job at looking after the relatives of the Chinese passengers.

Hishammuddin has rejected complaints that the country has botched search efforts or refused to share vital information with other governments.

A Royal Australian Air Force AP-3C Orion returns from a search for Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370 over the Indian Ocean, at RAAF Base Pearce, north of Perth March 21, 2014. REUTERS/Jason Reed

For families of the passengers, the process has proved to be an emotionally wrenching battle to elicit information, their angst fuelled by a steady stream of speculation and false leads.

In a Beijing hotel where the bulk of Chinese families have been awaiting information, the deadlock prompted rage over perceived Malaysian incompetence.

For a handful of Chinese families who chose to be flown to Kuala Lumpur to be closer to the heart of search operations, the flow of information has been no more fluid.

On Wednesday, grief erupted into anger when several family members unfurled a protest banner in front of a throng of journalists, demanding the truth from the Malaysian government. The ruckus prompted police to escort the relatives, including a distraught mother, away from the briefing room.

By Friday, the Chinese families who had been staying at a resort south of Kuala Lumpur had to decamp to another hotel as they were displaced by customers for the upcoming Malaysian Formula One grand prix.

“Tonight all the government could give us was old information. But of course we, the families, want to hear new updates,” Malaysian Hamid Ramlat, the father of a passenger, told reporters after emerging from a briefing on Thursday night.

Slideshow (10 Images)

Some experts have argued that the reluctance to share sensitive radar data and capabilities in a region fraught with suspicion amid China’s military rise and territorial disputes may have hampered the search.

Two people familiar with the investigation said the search had been slowed in some cases by delays over the paperwork needed to allow foreign maritime surveillance aircraft into territorial waters without a formal diplomatic request.
====================
Community Rating:

Community Rating: 3.333 / 5 ( 9 votes ) Click here to view ratings and comments. Oracle Printed Card Name: Cruel Sadist Mana Cost: Converted Mana Cost: 1 Types: Creature — Human Assassin Card Text: , , Pay 1 life: Put a +1/+1 counter on Cruel Sadist. , Pay 1 life: Put a +1/+1 counter on Cruel Sadist. , , Remove X +1/+1 counters from Cruel Sadist: Cruel Sadist deals X damage to target creature. , Remove X +1/+1 counters from Cruel Sadist: Cruel Sadist deals X damage to target creature. Flavor Text: Face of innocence. Hand of death. Designed by Edmund McMillen P/T: 1 / 1 Expansion: Magic 2015 Core Set Rarity: Rare Card Number: 93 Artist: Min Yum Rulings You can remove any +1/+1 counters from Cruel Sadist to activate its second ability, not just those put on Cruel Sadist by its first ability.
====================
Dear Reader, As you can imagine, more people are reading The Jerusalem Post than ever before. Nevertheless, traditional business models are no longer sustainable and high-quality publications, like ours, are being forced to look for new ways to keep going. Unlike many other news organizations, we have not put up a paywall. We want to keep our journalism open and accessible and be able to keep providing you with news and analysis from the frontlines of Israel, the Middle East and the Jewish World.

Rabbi Michael “Miki” Mark, 48, a father of 10 and the director-general of the Otniel Yeshiva was killed Friday by a Palestinian gunmen as he drove on Route 60 in the South Hebron Hills.



His wife and two of his children, ages 14 and 15 were wounded in the incident that occurred near the Aduraim Junction.

Soldiers searching for the shooter on Route 60 (Credit: IDF SPOKESMAN'S OFFICE)

The junction is located just 15 kilometers down the road from the Kiryat Arba settlement, where a Palestinian terrorist infiltrated a home and stabbed to death Hallel Yaffa Ariel, 13, on Thursday morning.Doctors in the hospitals trauma unit are treating the family.Victim Micheal "Micker" Mark, killed on Route 60 (Credit: ITZIK COHEN /MOUNT HEBRON SPOKESMAN)In Friday’s incident, the rain of bullets against the vehicle caused it to overturn. Paramedics who arrived at the scene found Mark in the upside down vehicle, while the other passengers had been managed to exit the car.Magen David Adom paramedic Zaki Yahav said that it was a “very difficult” scene. Mark “was trapped inside” with gunshot wounds and other injuries form the accident. He didn’t have a pulse and he wasn’t breathing. “We tried to resuscitate him,” said Zahav, but it was not possible they declared him dead at the scene.Magen David Adom reported that Mark’s wife, in her 40s has been evacuated while sedated and intubated, and rushed to the Hadassah Medical Center in Ein Karem in serious condition. His daughter, 14, sustained with a gun shot wound to her stomach is in serious condition and his son, 15, was lightly wounded.Doctors in the hospitals trauma unit are treating the family.President Reuven Rivlin sent his condolences to the Mark family. “I join in the prayers being said now across Israel for the full recovery of the family's mother and children,” Rivlin said."Miki, who was the director of the Hesder Yeshiva (Torah college) in Otniel, saw the school as his life's project and one of the most important projects in Israeli society."The Yeshiva in Otniel has known sad times, and to our sorrow the list of its alumni who have fallen in Israel's conflicts is long,” said Rivlin in reference to the 2002 attack in which two Palestinians infiltrated the building and killed four students.Earlier on Friday, IDF Chief of Staff Lt.-Gen. Gadi Eisenkot visited Kiryat Arba with OC Central Command, Maj.-Gen. Roni Nume, and Judea and Samaria Division Commander, Brig.-Gen. Lior Carmeli. During the tour, Eisenkot received a security briefing from Judea Brigade Commander, Col. Yair Ben Ezra, and other senior commanders in the sector.Since September 2015 to now, 40 people have been killed and 430 injured in a series of Palestinian attacks.

Join Jerusalem Post Premium Plus now for just $5 and upgrade your experience with an ads-free website and exclusive content. Click here>>




====================
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo.—Lieutenant General Michelle Johnson stood at the window of her office and surveyed one of the most orderly college campuses in America. Despite the mild spring weather, there were no students lounging on the grass or blasting music outside the dorms at the U.S. Air Force Academy just north of this mountain town. In fact, it was quiet, save for the low whir of tow planes pulling gliders across the blue April sky.

“We’re like an aluminum fortress,” she said, gesturing toward the pointed spires of the academy’s iconic chapel and the low-slung buildings that anchor this 19,000-acre school. “We’ve got to be open and secure.”

Johnson, who became the first woman to serve as superintendent of the academy in 2013, was speaking literally. (The Air Force has conducted airstrikes against ISIS and the campus has become a target of the group.) But she might as well have been referring to her strategy for running the operation responsible for educating the next generation of Air Force officers who will be tasked with defending the United States against foreign threats.



Although she’s only been at the helm for three years, they are years that span a tumultuous time for both higher education and the military broadly. Educators and military officials are grappling with shifting demographics, where the people in leadership roles look less and less like the people they are charged with serving. At colleges across the country, the overwhelming whiteness of those in power has prompted Black Lives Matter activists to call for more diversity. At the Pentagon, the Defense Department is looking for creative ways to fight an enemy that is less predictable and more amorphous. Both tasks require a delicate balance of preservation and evolution, of security and openness. As the leader of both an elite institution of higher learning and a key piece of the military pipeline, Johnson sits at the nexus. “We’re trying to deliver this traditional mission in a relevant way to this generation and to the profession of arms,” she said.

At the academy, that has meant bringing sometimes-uncomfortable conversations about race into the open. The dialogue is structured in a way that both adheres to the military’s strict guidelines around acceptable conduct and recognizes that the 4,000 cadets that call the academy home each year are not cogs in a machine, but young American adults with opinions and values and connections to the world around them. The student protests that erupted at schools like the University of Missouri after the black teenager Michael Brown was shot and killed by Darren Wilson, a white police officer in Ferguson, didn’t materialize at the academy. Such activities could, after all, be considered a violation of the Defense Department’s rules against making political statements in uniform. But Johnson acknowledged that the absence of overt unrest does not mean the absence of discontent. “Same concerns. Same gene pool. Same generation, so we try to tend to those,” she said.
====================
Following are excerpts from Maulana Abdul Haleem's sermon, as quoted in various Pakistani newspapers:

The warning against female staff of NGOs was issued in a Friday sermon at the central mosque in the town of Kamila in Kohistan district in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, and was confirmed in comments to journalists afterwards. [3] Following the sermon, a journalist asked him if Islamic nations like Saudi Arabia and Iran are violating shari'ah by spending billions on women's education, Maulana Haleem termed their steps as "un-Islamic." [4]

According to a Pakistani website, Maulana Abdul Haleem is a father of eight sons and seven daughters, and his hobbies include delivering religious education in the form of dar s, lessons in the Koran and Hadith. [2]

Maulana Abdul Haleem, who was born in 1922 in the town of Pattan in Kohistan district, is a member of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI-F) party and is known to have nurtured a generation of Islamic clerics in Pakistan. In 2002 he was elected a Member of the National Assembly, the lower house of the parliament, from the platform of Muttahida Majlis-e-Amal (MMA), an alliance of religious-political parties cobbled together at the behest of then-Pakistani military ruler General Pervez Musharraf. According to a Pakistani daily, during his stint as an MP, Maulana Abdul Haleem also declared poppy cultivation in Kohistan to be "in accordance with Islam." [1]

In a Friday sermon, former Pakistani lawmaker and prominent Islamic cleric Maulana Abdul Haleem justified honor killings of women who opt for secular education, and has threatened to forcibly marry off female staff of secular non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who visit the district of Kohistan to work with women's education, health, and other welfare projects.

On the Modesty Code for Women and Secular Education: "It's Beghairti (Immodesty) to Equip Girls With A Secular Education"; "If A Woman Gets Education, She Would Also Seek A Job, Which Islam Doesn't Allow

"It's beghairti (immodesty) to equip girls with a secular education…. The Kohistani parents who are sending their girls to schools are acting against 'Islamic Shariah' and the local customs…. The Kohistani culture does not allow parents to send their pardadar (modest) girls to schools."[5]

"The 'secular' education of women is against Islamic injunctions… If a woman gets education, she would also seek a job, which Islam doesn't allow in any way…."[6]

"Getting education for degrees by women is repugnant to Islamic injunctions, because if a woman gets a degree, she may use it for job, an act which Islam doesn't allow in absence of mehram (close relatives)…."[7]

"Several Hadith books [i.e. those containing reports of deeds and sayings of Prophet Muhammad] prohibit girls from receiving degrees and certificates in 'secular education'…. Formal education paves the way for girls to enter the job market."[8]

On Men's Role Vis-à-vis Women: "The Only Responsibility Men Owe to Women is Sustenance, Not Education…. In Return, the Women should Stay at Home and Look After Their Children"

"When they [i.e. male members of a family] permit their women to work, they give them a free hand to mix with na-mehrum (men to whom they are not related blood) – by doing so, the girl's father, brother or husband become dayoos [someone who accepts the wrongdoings of female family members] in the eye of the shari'a…."[9]

"Such people will never enter Paradise….[10]

"The only responsibility men owe to women is sustenance, not education…. In return, the women should stay at home and look after their children and relatives…."[11]

"Killing of women in the name of honor is a 'local custom and religious practice' in Kohistan…. If someone witnesses female relatives roaming with ghair mehram (other than close relatives), he can kill her without producing four witnesses [as required under Islamic law for such a punishment]."[12]

The Threat Against NGOs: "If Women Working in NGOs Enter Kohistan, We Won't Spare Them; We'll Solemnize Their Nikkah (Marriage) with Local Men"

"Some women from these NGOs visit our houses frequently, mobilizing naive Kohistani women to follow their agenda in the name of health and hygiene education…. This is 'unacceptable to Kohistani culture' …. [They will face] 'dire consequences' …. [and] married female NGO workers will be sent back to their husbands, and the unmarried ones will be wedded to Kohistani men."[13]

"If the NGOs wanted to work for womenfolk in the district [Kohistan] they should come through proper channel and utilize the government departments. People of Kohistan cannot be influenced by women, and NGOs should immediately stop the practice of sending women to Kohistan, or prepare for the consequences…."[14]

"If the government is serious about bringing development to Kohistan, it should utilize NGOs' funding itself with the help of local men. Men working for these NGOs can continue their work though… that is not against the Shariah and local culture."[15]

"These [girls'] schools have become cattle pens while the teachers received salaries without carrying out their duties."[16]

"If women working in NGOs enter Kohistan, we won't spare them; we will solemnize their nikkah (marriage) with local men."[17]
====================
Get the biggest Liverpool FC stories by email Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Daniel Sturridge has revealed how he has tried to help Mario Balotelli through his torrid time at Liverpool.

Balotelli finally scored his first Premier League goal with his late winner against Tottenham and Sturridge says he has been spending time talking to the Italian striker.

"For me, it's always about trying to help players who are here, not just Mario, but all the boys who are at the club," said England striker Sturridge.

"It's not easy to settle into a new team, a new area, a new lifestyle, with different people around you and so on and so forth. People don't ever take that into account.

"I just try to do my bit, although I'm not taking any credit for him scoring. I'm just happy he did.

(Image: C1 PHOTOGRAPHY)

"He's been waiting for a while to break his duck and been working very hard in training, and now he has scored one in the league, I'm sure things will start to go his way now."

Balotelli will remain on the fringes at Liverpool, despite his third goal for the club, and Sturridge will take centre stage after coming through his first start since August 31.

poll loading Will Balotelli reach double figures for goals this season? 0+ VOTES SO FAR YES NO

Sturridge was frustrated watching Liverpool crash out of the Champions League while he was injured and says this has fired him up to make the top four.

"That was probably the most frustrating thing of all, watching from the sidelines, and in the States, and seeing how unlucky we were not to advance in the competition," he said.

Liverpool 3-2 Tottenham in pictures:

"I'm disappointed not to be fighting on all fronts and trying to win the Premier League after last season and how well we did.

"We will look to do that next season, but we still have a lot to play for in this one.

"Every game is a big one, they are finals for us. That's the truth of it. It's important for us to be in the top four and to win some silverware. If we can do that, it will be a great achievement."
====================
The First Baptist Dallas pastor will speak to a who's-who of anti-gay groups at the Houston Stand4Truth conference about the "coming implosion" of America.

One week before Election Day, prominent anti-LGBT activists and “ex-gay” therapists will gather in Houston for a conference that promises to reveal “the politically incorrect truth about sexuality and gender.”

Organized by the US Pastor Council, which led opposition to Houston’s Equal Rights Ordinance, the Stand4Truth conference is co-sponsored by several organizations considered anti-LGBT hate groups by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), including the Conservative Republicans of Texas (CRT), Liberty Counsel and MassResistance.

Pastor Robert Jeffress of First Baptist Church in Dallas, who’s been busy defending Donald Trump despite the GOP presidential nominee’s recently unearthed remarks condoning sexual assault, will deliver two keynote talks during the conference, both titled “America’s Coming Implosion.”

Other noteworthy speakers at the two-day event, set for October 28 and 29 at the Houston Marriott South, include the American Family Association’s Sandy Rios, Liberty Counsel’s Mat Staver, CRT’s Steve Hotze, Texas Values President Jonathan Saenz, Dallas “ex-gay” therapist David Pickup and former Harris County GOP chair Jared Woodfill.

Mark Potok, senior fellow at SPLC, called it “the witch’s coven of haters.”

“These are people who don’t merely represent the religious right, they represent the extreme religious right,” Potok told the Observer. “These are essentially the same people in the evangelical world who’ve refused to move away from Donald Trump.”

Asked about the timing of the conference, Potok said that in the wake of recent revelations about Trump’s past, evangelicals are “getting more and more nervous as the election approaches.”

“They can describe all of this as locker room talk, but the signs are ominous for them,” Potok said. “I’m sure they’re worried.”

Dan Quinn, a spokesman for the pro-LGBT Texas Freedom Network, said the conference represents “a rogues’ gallery of political activists who delight in generating hate and contempt for LGBT people across the country.”

“It’s shameful how they misuse faith as a weapon to promote a divisive political agenda and bash people simply because of who they are or whom they love,” Quinn said. “You can be sure that many of them will be in Austin next year asking state lawmakers to pass the same kind of discriminatory legislation we’ve seen do so much damage in states like North Carolina.”

Dave Welch, executive director of the US Pastor Council, wasn’t immediately available for comment. It marks the second time in as many election years that Welch and other Texas anti-LGBT leaders have gathered in Houston just prior to Election Day. In 2014, they were joined by Duck Dynasty patriarch Phil Robertson and former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee.

According to the conference website, Stand4Truth is needed because the nation is “on the verge of changing the way it defines basic human nature.”.

“Marriage between men and women, the basis of all civilizations, is being defined as never before in world history,” the site states. “‘New’ philosophies of sexuality and gender are catching fire across the world as never before because of social media. Without the truth, our children will know nothing of how to be in the world without being ‘of the world.’”
====================
Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.

April 8, 2014, 2:40 PM GMT

MAINZ, Germany -- Cookie Monster is being used by two neo-Nazis in eastern Germany to spread right-wing ideology among students in a local high-school, according to police.

“After months of investigation, we were able to arrest a well-known right-wing extremist dressed in a Cookie Monster costume, while he and an accomplice were handing out leaflets that read “To Be German is Cool’ at a local school in Senftenberg,” Ines Filohn, a police spokeswoman in the state of Brandenburg, told NBC News.

Following the incident, police searched the homes of the two extremists in the cities of Cottbus and Schwarzheide and confiscated computers with other neo-Nazi material. Pending official charges and further investigations, the two men –– both in their thirties -- were released by police.

According to reports in Britain’s Daily Mail, one image found on one of the suspect's computers included a picture of the Sesame Street character Cookie Monster standing next to Adolf Hitler with the caption "Who ate my cookie?"

“We are presently trying to identify whether the two men can be linked to 20 other incidents that involved the Cookie Monster,” Filohn said.

Since the end of September, German police have been searching for the makers of short comic-like Internet videos showing the Cookie Monster and were investigating at least one case in which unknown suspects had plastered posters on school walls that read: “In 2030, the last Germans."

Experts say that neo-Nazi groups and individual extremists have been searching for new ways to draw attention to racist ideologies and in particular are promoting their "Volkstod," or "National Death" campaign, which is used by right-wing extremists to describe what they perceive as the degradation of the German race in a multicultural society.

The police spokeswoman in Cottbus expressed concern over the manipulation methods used by the neo-Nazi duo.

"These extremists are trying to trivialize their dangerous ideology by using simple language, by creating ironic cartoons and by increasingly using social media to reach adolescents," Filohn said.

“The hardcore extremist scene is small, but very well connected,” Filohn added. “And, they are cleverly using this type of provocation to gain broader attention, especially in the media.”

- Andy Eckardt
====================
Okay so let's get the cons out of the way. There's a weird thing where you get English voices and the Japanese voices are pre-order DLC what the hell right?



Okay now the pros.

This game is great. Don't let negative Nancy tell you otherwise. Aesthetically it's just a cute fun childlike adventure that never takes itself too seriously, and you get to have your favorite final fantasy monsters as Pokémon buddies. The game starts set to an auto time battle setup like previous ATB games, but with a simple battle menu where you set 4 abilities, each to a face button. But if you go in the menu you can change it to stop when its your turn and also to have the classic battle menu. And now you're playing old final fantasy, LIKE YOU WANTED, so don't squander it if you were the one complaining.

There's not much else to say. It's beautiful, the music is great, it's fun and lighthearted, and it runs well. I've played 30 hours and I'm not sure if I'm near the end yet but I might be. It's meant to be replayed though. Battles have a fast forward button which makes grinding so easy.



Also might be a pro, it is for me. The game is like, kick you in the face, brutally Japanese. And I don't mean anime I mean it's japanese. The way characters move, and talk, and just everything. If you're familiar with Japanese video game culture. You'll get what I mean immediatly. It's endearing as long as you got them japanese voices on trust me.
====================
When Beyoncé dropped "Formation" over the weekend, it was an exciting, exuberant, and decidedly political celebration of blackness.The song, and its video, were lauded for proving that Beyoncé is "woke," and fully plugged into what it means to be a black woman in America. What's most fascinating about the reaction to "Formation" is that it assumes Beyoncé has never before put her blackness on display in this way.

But Beyoncé has always been political -- and most of all, pro-black -- we just weren't paying attention.

The conundrum of Beyoncé is that she is for everyone, and yet she is not for everyone. Her mass appeal has always come from how palatable she is to white audiences. With her light skin and blonde, flowing weaves, she's been able to navigate a space that tends to exclude (or at the very least limit) black women. She's black but not too black. Sassy but not too aggressive. Read as more universal than specific to any one identity or experience. When she sings "Who run the world -- girls!" the girls she speaks of are an amorphous, ever-changing group, racially-ambiguous, of no specific social class.

But "Formation" felt different. The song, video, and subsequent Super Bowl performance is the visual and auditory equivalent of "bitch you thought." With its nods to New Orleans, its imagery invoking the realities of police brutality, its celebration of black gay ballroom culture and the Black Panthers, Beyoncé's latest single is perhaps the most straightforward expression of her blackness.

But it isn't the first. Through her music and performance, she has always given nods to her blackness and the black performers who have come before -- from the banana skirt she wore in homage to Josephine Baker in a 2006 performance of "Deja Vu" to the leather jacket inspired by Michael Jackson that she rocked during Sunday's Halftime Show. "I wanted people to feel proud," she told reporters a day after the show.

Beyonce is matching Michael Jackson aw pic.twitter.com/XSBbf5e9db — Girlful (@TheGirlful) February 9, 2016

According to Kevin Allred, a Rutgers professor who teaches the popular class "Politicizing Beyoncé," Beyoncé has been putting hints of her personal politics into her music for over a decade.

"The entire imagery of the B'Day album, which came out post-Katrina, evokes the gulf coast New Orleans," Allred said. "And she's always used imagery that challenges the police and the state, in 'Run the World,' 'Superpower' and 'Ring The Alarm.'" It's subtle, Allred argues, but it's there -- just think of Beyoncé and her army of girls dancing (in formation) against a line of officers in riot gear in "Run the World," imagery that echoes the young black boy in a hoodie defiantly dancing in front of a row of policemen.

Beyoncé has been playing the long game. She's used her universal appeal to gain the kind of success that results in access and power. She's situated herself so firmly at the top of the mainstream music food chain that no criticism (not even from Rudy Giuliani), can stop her from making music that's more blatantly black and blatantly political than ever. With this power comes a much wider reach, as her white fans, lured in by the gospel of the "Independent Woman," are being forced to engage with her blackness and black issues in a real way. It's kind of genius.

"Formation" is a subtle reminder that black culture is taken for granted. Black culture is constantly being consumed by the larger monster of "pop culture." Music is where we see this process at its most efficient. That's how Justin Bieber can be praised for making "tropical house" music that's really just watered down dancehall, while Rihanna can release a song like "Work" and be criticized for not enunciating properly by white music writers who fail to take into consideration the existence of patois.

Beyoncé's blackness has been on display in the trap anthem "7/11" where her Texas drawl is in full effect, it's been on display in "Love on Top" where she channels Michael Jackson, New Edition, and all those old soul ballads your mom used to play on Sunday mornings. But the thing about black music and black bodies in entertainment is that we've all been trained to ignore the fact that it's their blackness that makes them unique.

By separating blackness from the art created by black people, we complicate the conversation of ownership, of participation. Beyoncé, singing about Red Lobster and hot sauce in her bag, has created something so specifically for black people that it cannot be denied. If you want to participate, indulge, be entertained, you must acknowledge black lives and black issues in the process. If you don't, you were never really here for us to begin with. Carry on.

Also on HuffPost:
====================
Google is gearing up for tomorrow's Pixel event and one of the first hints of everything we've got coming our way is a redesign of the Google Home app that seems to be rolling with the new version 1.25.81.13. We're seeing it on all of our devices so this doesn't seem to be a sever-side test.

First, upon launching the app, you'll notice a new animation of squares and circles and triangles in Google's traditional yellow, green, red, and blue colors, interspersed with a little grey. It looks nice and you'll notice that the app now has two tabs on the bottom: Discover and Browse.

Discover tab

Starting with the first tab, Discover is where you'll see hints of things you can do with your Assistant and Google Home plus more apps to download and try. A nice "Welcome Home" message greats you on top.

And since Discover is the first thing you see in the Google Home app, it will also be where you find search results related to your activity, new Google Home and Chromecast built-in speakers to set up, and your Now Playing music and video cards.

Now Playing card

Speaking of the Now Playing card, it has also been changed. Both the card and the volume controls pop-up look different now. Here are before (left) and after (right) screenshots of the card.

And now here are screenshots of the volume controls with before (left) and after (right). The horizontal bar has been dumped in favor of a circular line.

Plus, I'm not sure if it's new or not, but there is also a skipping bar and a 30-sec rewind button below it. I've never cast Netflix before, so these could be limited to Netflix playback and could have been there in the old layout. If they're new however, I hope they show up for music too, not just video. I can't test any of that now because I'm at work and my Google Homes are, well, home, so let us know in the comments if these are indeed new and if you see them for music as well.

Either way, the skipping bar and rewind make a lot of sense if you want to control playback of a music/video and you don't have the original casting app on your device. Previously, the Home app wasn't of any help for that.

Browse tab

Once you switch to the Browse tab, you'll see recommendations of popular things to watch or listen to based on your installed apps. A floating search icon is on the bottom, along with other floating buttons for Music, Movies, and TV shows.

The rest of the app appears unchanged, including the side menu and the settings. If you want to try out the new layout, you can grab Google Home 1.25.81.13 from the Play Store or directly download it from APK Mirror.
====================
Abstract

Background In human beings, dark skin requires more exposure to ultraviolet light to synthesize the same amount of vitamin D as lighter skin. It is has been repeatedly shown that at the latitude of the United States there are vitamin D disparities related to skin color. Although inadequate vitamin D status and health disparities have been associated with many of the same diseases, neither nutrition policy nor public health policy in the United States currently recognizes any role at all for vitamin D as a determinant of health disparities.

Objective This study investigated the relationship between health, skin color, and vitamin D nutriture in the US population.

Design The design is cross-sectional, correlational, and can be generalized to the population of the United States.

Participants We used data from 12,505 (unweighted) subjects (3,402 non-Hispanic blacks, 3,143 Mexican Americans, and 5,960 non-Hispanic whites), aged 13 years or older, from the continuous National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2003-2006.

Main outcome measure Self-rated health, a repeatedly validated indicator of objective health status, was used as a continuous measure of health.

Statistical analyses performed Using software appropriate for the complex survey design of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, the study consisted of six regression models, one predicting vitamin D status and five predicting self-rated health.

Results Controlling for the covariates sex, interview language, country of birth, tobacco use, age, body mass index, and leisure exercise as well as the socioeconomic variables education and family income, remaining disparities in self-rated health are greatly reduced or eliminated by controlling for serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels.
====================
"Recently, I purchased an Apple computer. The computer was sold to me without filters to block out pornography. I was not provided with any warning by Apple that pornography was highly addictive and could alter my reward cycle by the manufacturer. Over time, I began preferring sex with my computer over sex with real women. Naturally, I 'fell in love' with my computer and preferred having sex with it over all other persons or things, as a result of classic conditioning upon orgasm."

-- From a motion to intervene in a federal same-gender marriage recognition case filed by Chris Sevier, a Florida anti-gay activist who describes himself as a "former Judge Advocate and combat veteran." Continuing the long and ignoble tradition of conservatives linking same-sex marriages with unions between people and inanimate objects, Sevier writes that if gays "have the right to marry their preferred sexual object" even if that object lacks "corresponding sexual parts," then he should have the right to marry the object of his desire: his "porn filled Apple computer."

Needless to say, the judge on this case was not amused and tossed Sevier's motion.
====================
The large lakes of East Africa have been called “Darwin’s dream ponds”—bodies of water filled with astonishing numbers of fish species that fascinate evolutionary scientists. But how do fish that live together in the same place spin off into new species? Researchers think they’ve found the answer in a nearby lake they characterize as more of a puddle.

In a paper published today in Science, biologists describe a small crater lake in Tanzania where they say the fish are in the process of sympatric speciation, or the process by which new species evolve from a single ancestor while living in the same geographic area.

The concept is so controversial that some scientists don’t believe it really happens. To become a new species, organisms must become different enough so that they cannot breed with organisms of other species. Usually this happens when a segment of one population is somehow removed from others of its kind. In a new location, a reduced gene pool or different environmental pressures can cause an entirely different species to develop.

But when animals live in close proximity, they share the same habitat and environmental pressures. Since there are no obvious physical barriers between the animals, they could hypothetically exchange genetic material with one another and have no need to differentiate. That has biologists struggling to figure out why new species sometimes do emerge in small spaces.

In the new paper, the research team studied the genomes of 146 cichlid fish living in the crater lake. The small lake contains two kinds of fish: one with yellow-green males that prefer the shallows and another with blue-black males that prefer the depths. However, the fish still often swim in the same places, with no barriers to their interactions.

The team discovered tiny genetic differences between the two forms of fish. Their study revealed that less than one percent of the fishes’ genes are different—primarily those that pertain to light sensing and shape.

The research team thinks that even though the animals swim together, look largely similar and are nearly identical genetically, they seem to prefer different mates, suggesting they are separate species. But this example of sympatric speciation in action doesn’t mean the concept has been definitively proven.

Now it’s up to scientists to look further into the mechanisms of how those sex preferences develop in a simple system like the crater lake—and how the processes might happen elsewhere. “These fish have much to tell us,” co-author Martin Genner of the University of Bristol says in a press release.
====================
A member of England's royal family has laid a wreath at a memorial to rebels who fought and died in the 1916 Easter Rising.

The Duke of Kent honoured volunteers at the Sigerson Memorial in Glasnevin cemetery, Dublin, where he also paid tribute to Irish soldiers who died in both world wars.

The Duke is president of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission which over the last four years has worked with the Glasnevin Trust to erect headstones and mark 208 graves in the cemetery of Irish men and women who served in the British armed forces.

A laurel wreath was laid in memory of the Irish rebels while a poppy wreath was laid at the commemorative walls to mark those who died in the First and Second World War.

The visit saw the Duke become the first royal to paid tribute to Ireland’s revolutionaries at the Glasnevin gravesides.

John Green, Glasnevin Trust chairman, said the work done on remembering the Irish war dead was cementing relations with Britain.

“The Commonwealth War Graves Commission, of which he is president, has been a wonderful partner without whom most of the 208 graves of people who fought in the First and Second World War would still be unmarked despite their great sacrifice,” he said.

“It has been a wonderful collaboration and we believe one that is playing it’s part in further strengthening the bonds between our two great nations in this modern era.”

The Duke toured the site led by cemetery historian Shane Mac Thomais who highlighted some of the more significant plots including Daniel O’Connell’s Crypt, the graves of Eamon de Valera, Michael Collins, Roger Casement and Charles Stewart Parnell and the Republican Plot.

He also saw the graves of Sergeant Patrick Dunne and Volunteer Edward Ennis, two young men who died within months of each other in 1916, one fighting for Ireland and the other Britain.

Sgt Dunne was wounded at the Somme and returned to Ireland where he died and Vol Ennis was found dead on railway lines at Connolly station.

Both were 19.

“The Duke was very impressed with the site and the nature of the historical importance and mindful of the amount of work that it would take to keep the place as well as we do,” Mr Mac Thomais said.

He was joined on his visit by Jimmy Deenihan, minister for the arts, heritage and the Gaeltacht, junior minister Brian Hayes, British Ambassador Dominick Chilcott, and Democratic Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson.

The Duke suffered a mild stroke in mid-March and was treated at an undisclosed London hospital for a number of days but was back attending official engagements three weeks later.
====================
Diagnostic health care is often restricted in areas with limited resources, because the procedures required to detect many of the molecular markers that can diagnose diseases are too complex or expensive to be used outside of a central laboratory. Researchers in the lab of Rustem Ismagilov, Caltech's Ethel Wilson Bowles and Robert Bowles Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and director of the Jacobs Institute for Molecular Engineering for Medicine, are inventing new technologies to help bring emerging diagnostic capabilities out of laboratories and to the point of care. Among the important requirements for such diagnostic devices is that the results—or readouts—be robust against a variety of environmental conditions and user errors.

To address the need for a robust readout system for quantitative diagnostics, researchers in the Ismagilov lab have invented a new visual readout method that uses analytical chemistries and image processing to provide unambiguous quantification of single nucleic-acid molecules that can be performed by any cell-phone camera.

The visual readout method is described and validated using RNA from the hepatitis C virus—HCV RNA—in a paper in the February 22 issue of the journal ACS Nano.

The work utilizes a microfluidic technology called SlipChip, which was invented in the Ismagilov lab several years ago. A SlipChip serves as a portable lab-on-a-chip and can be used to quantify concentrations of single molecules. Each SlipChip encodes a complex program for isolating single molecules (such as DNA or RNA) along with chemical reactants in nanoliter-sized wells. The program also controls the complex reactions in each well: the chip consists of two plates that move—or "slip"—relative to one another, with each "slip" joining or separating the hundreds or even thousands of tiny wells, either bringing reactants and molecules into contact or isolating them. The architecture of the chip enables the user to have complete control over these chemical reactions and can prevent contamination, making it an ideal platform for a user-friendly, robust diagnostic device.

The new visual readout method builds upon this SlipChip platform. Special indicator chemistries are integrated into the wells of the SlipChip device. After an amplification reaction—a reaction that multiplies nucleic-acid molecules—wells change color depending on whether the reaction in it was positive or negative. For example, if a SlipChip is being used to count HCV RNA molecules in a sample, a well containing an RNA molecule that amplified during the reaction would turn blue; whereas a well lacking an RNA molecule would remain purple.

To read the result, a user simply takes a picture of the entire SlipChip using any camera phone. Then the photo is processed using a ratiometric approach that transforms the colors detected by the camera's sensor into an unambiguous readout of positives and negatives.

Previous SlipChip technologies utilized a chemical that would fluoresce when a reaction took place within a well. But those readouts can be too subtle for detection by a common cell-phone camera or can require specific lighting conditions. The new method provides guidelines for selecting indicators that yield color changes compatible with the color sensitivities of phone cameras, and the ratiometric processing removes the need for a user to distinguish colors by sight.

"The readout process we developed can be used with any cell-phone camera," says Jesus Rodriguez-Manzano, a postdoctoral scholar in chemical engineering and one of two first authors on the paper. "It is rapid, automated, and doesn't require counting or visual interpretation, so the results can be read by anyone—even users who are color blind or working under poor lighting conditions. This robustness makes our visual readout method appropriate for integration with devices used in any setting, including at the point of care in limited-resource settings. This is critical because the need for highly sensitive diagnostics is greatest in such regions."

The paper is titled "Reading Out Single-Molecule Digital RNA and DNA Isothermal Amplification in Nanoliter Volumes with Unmodified Camera Phones." In addition to Rodriguez-Manzano, Mikhail Karymov is also a first author. Other Caltech coauthors include Stefano Begolo, David Selck, Dmitriy Zhukov, and Erik Jue. The work was funded by grants from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the National Institutes of Health, and an Innovation in Regulatory Science Award from the Burroughs Wellcome Fund. Microfluidic technologies developed by Ismagilov's group have been licensed to Emerald BioStructures, RainDance Technologies, and SlipChip Corp., of which Ismagilov is a founder.
====================
Honey, grab the kids: we're going abroad.

Much of the world is on sale for Americans right now since the U.S. dollar is enjoying one of the strongest moments in modern history.

Just about everything from hotels to luxury handbags to McDonald's hamburgers is cheaper abroad than in the United States right now. When you take dollars to the foreign exchange booth, you get a lot more of another country's currency back than you used to.

If you were dreaming of a vacation to a far off destination, now is the time. While Europe may be the first destination to spring to many minds, Americans can get more bang for their buck across many other countries across the globe.

CNNMoney crunched the numbers on exchange rates, hotel costs and flight prices. Here are the top 5 places to find a bargain:

1. That European trip you always wanted. If you're dreaming of Paris, that's a steal right now. Recent roundtrip flights to Paris are as cheap as $519, according to Hopper, a travel-data site. Travelers have noticed the deals. Flight searches for New York to Paris are up nearly 10% last week compared to prior four weeks.

The reason is simple: the euro is now nearly equal with the dollar. One euro costs $1.09. Compare that to a year ago when one euro was about $1.40. (Here's more on why Europe is so cheap).

Travel to the euro area -- Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium and Austria, among other nations -- is almost 20% cheaper now from a year ago. The European economy is struggling, causing more bargains and discounts.

Hotel reservations are up in Italy, Spain, and Germany, according to Priceline (PCLN). Outside the euro zone, Norway is another good bet: the dollar has appreciated by a third over the past year. That's a lot better than usual, since Scandinavia is typically viewed as one of the more expensive places to visit.

Related: American cash is flooding into European stocks

2. Calling all Russian Vodka fans. Moscow is a can't-miss for cold-weather travelers right now. Russia's ruble has been tanking as its economy gets hurt by western sanctions and plunging oil prices.

One dollar would get you 35 roubles a year ago. Now a dollar gets you 57 roubles. Of course, this isn't just a currency problem. The conflict between Ukraine and Russia has scared travelers away. The tourism industry is trying to rebound by offering deep discounts.

Flight prices from New York to Moscow have dropped 37% on the year and hotels are 45% cheaper than a year ago, according to Hopper and TripAdvisor.

If you'd rather see the sun than sip on Stolichnaya vodka, the U.S. dollar can save you money on the other side of the equator too.

Related: Russia's economic misery deepens

3. Brazil is a bargain. Pack your bikini, speedo and SPF 30: it's the right time to go to Rio de Janiero -- or anywhere else in Brazil.

Brazil's currency, the Real, has lost almost 30% of its value against the dollar from a year ago. That means places like Rio and Sao Paulo are much cheaper to visit now.

A typical flight from New York to Rio was $1,170 last March. Now it's $856, according to Hopper, which points out that flights have gone down since the World Cup last summer.

Hotels in Brazil are 12% cheaper compared to a year ago, TripAdvisor (TRIP)data shows. By the way, you want to go now before prices possibly soar again for the Summer Olympics in 2016.

Brazil economy is also getting hurt by inflation and the end of a long commodity boom. Add on a strong dollar and you've got a recipe for Americans to B-line it to Brazil this year.

But if you want to practice Spanish instead of Portuguese, there's another steal down South.

Related: Brazil's scandalous boom to bust story

4. Colombia is calling. Colombia is one of the South America's best growth stories right now, but the U.S. dollar's rally keeps the trip cheap.

The dollar has gained 18% in value on the peso in the past year. Hotels in Colombia are 10% cheaper from a year ago, according to TripAdvisor. Flights are bit cheaper too, Hopper reports.

While many Americans still think of Colombia as the "murder capital," that image is outdated. The country is booming.

The capital of Bogota and Medellin, Colombia's second largest city, are becoming tech and cultural hubs while Colombia's beaches are beautiful. The coffee is outrageously good and cheap too.

Related: How Colombia went from murder capital to tech powerhouse

5. The South African Safari. The famous ocean views in Cape Town look even better now: It's 13% cheaper for folks with dollars to vacation in South Africa. Similar to Brazil, South Africa's currency is losing value against the dollar as commodity prices slump.

Flights from New York to Cape Town are down 24% from a year ago, according to Hopper. To put it another way: South Africa is more than double distance to New York than Paris, yet flights there cost a mere $130 more. If you don't mind really long flights, South Africa offers a lot of bang for your buck.

How long will these deals last? At the moment, experts predict the U.S. dollar is likely to stay strong through the end of the year, but it's unclear whether travel will pick up enough to lift flight and hotel prices even sooner. The word is getting out.
====================
Not to be confused with Self-anointing in animals

Anointing is the ritual act of pouring aromatic oil over a person's head or entire body. By extension, the term is also applied to related acts of sprinkling, dousing, or smearing a person or object with any perfumed oil, milk, butter, or other fat. Scented oils are used as perfumes and sharing them is an act of hospitality. Their use to introduce a divine influence or presence is recorded from the earliest times; anointing was thus used as a form of medicine, thought to rid persons and things of dangerous spirits and demons which were believed to cause disease.

In present usage, "anointing" is typically used for ceremonial blessings such as the coronation of European monarchs. This continues an earlier Hebrew practice most famously observed in the anointings of Aaron as high priest and both Saul and David by the prophet Samuel. The concept is important to the figures of the Messiah and the Christ (Hebrew and Greek for "The Anointed One") who appear prominently in Jewish and Christian theology and eschatology. Anointing—particularly the anointing of the sick—may also be known as unction; the anointing of the dying as part of last rites in the Catholic church is sometimes specified as "extreme unction".

Name [ edit ]

The present verb derives from the now obsolete adjective anoint, equivalent to anointed.[3] The adjective is first attested in 1303,[n 1] derived from Old French enoint, the past participle of enoindre, from Latin inung(u)ere,[5] an intensified form of ung(u)ere ("to anoint"). It is thus cognate with "unction".

The oil used in a ceremonial anointment may be called "chrism" (from Greek χρῖσμα, khrîsma, "anointing"),[6] although Christianity usually distinguishes a particularly sanctified chrism from other oils which might also be used. Several related words such as "chrismation" (anointing with oil) and "chrismarium" (a vessel containing chrism or another holy oil) derive from the same root.

Purpose [ edit ]

Anointing served and serves three distinct purposes: it is regarded as a means of health and comfort, as a token of honor, and as a symbol of consecration. It seems probable that its sanative purposes were enjoyed before it became an object of ceremonial religion, but the custom appears to predate written history and the archaeological record, and its genesis is impossible to determine with certainty.

Health [ edit ]

Used in conjunction with bathing, anointment with oil closes pores. It was regarded as counteracting the influence of the sun, reducing sweating. Aromatic oils naturally masked body and other offensive odors, and other forms of fat could be combined with perfumes.

Applications of oils and fats are also used as traditional medicines. The Bible records olive oil being applied to the sick and poured into wounds.[n 2] Known sources date from times when anointment already served a religious function; therefore, anointing was also used to combat the malicious influence of demons in Persia, Armenia, and Greece. It was more recently used in traditional Indian medicine to remove illness, "bad luck", and "demonic possession".[citation needed] Anointing was also understood to "seal in" goodness and resist corruption, probably via analogy with the use of a top layer of oil to preserve wine in ancient amphoras, its spoiling usually being credited to demonic influence.

For sanitary and religious reasons, the bodies of the dead are sometimes anointed.[n 3] In medieval and early modern Christianity, the practice was particularly associated with protection against vampires and ghouls who might otherwise take possession of the corpse.

Hospitality [ edit ]

Anointing guests with oil as a mark of hospitality and token of honor is recorded in Egypt, Greece, and Rome, as well as in the Hebrew scriptures. It was a common custom among the ancient Hebrews[n 4] and continued among the Arabs into the 20th century.

For about 3,000 years, Persian Zoroastrians honor their guests with rose extract (golab) while holding a mirror in front of their guest's face.[why?] The guests hold their palms out, collect the rose water, and then spread the perfumed liquid upon their faces and sometimes heads. The words of rooj kori aka (similar to Have a nice day) might be said as well.[citation needed]

Religion [ edit ]

In the sympathetic magic common to prehistoric and primitive religions, the fat of sacrificial animals and persons is often reckoned as a powerful charm, second to blood as the vehicle and seat of life.[17] East African Arabs traditionally anointed themselves with lion's fat to gain courage and provoke fear in other animals. Australian Aborigines would rub themselves with a human victim's caul fat to gain his powers.

In religions like Christianity where animal sacrifice is no longer practiced, it is common to consecrate the oil in a special ceremony.

Egypt [ edit ]

In ancient Egypt, officials were anointed as part of a ceremony that installed them into office.[18]

Anointment of the corpse with scented oils was also an important part of mummification.[19]

India [ edit ]

In Indian religion, late Vedic rituals developed involving the anointing of government officials, worshippers, and idols. These are now known as abhisheka. The practice spread to Indian Buddhists.[citation needed] In modern Hinduism and Jainism, anointment is common, although the practice typically employs water or yoghurt, milk, or (particularly) butter from the holy cow, rather than oil. Many devotees are anointed as an act of consecration or blessing at every stage of life, with rituals accompanying birthing, educational enrollments, religious initiations, and death.[citation needed] New buildings, houses, and ritual instruments are anointed,[citation needed] and some idols are anointed daily. Particular care is taken in such rituals to the direction of the smearing. People are anointed from head to foot, downwards. The water may derive from one of the holy rivers or be scented with saffron, turmeric, or flower infusions; the waste water produced when cleaning certain idols or when writing certain verses of scripture may also be used.[citation needed] Ointments may include ashes, clay, powdered sandalwood, or herbal pastes.

Buddhism [ edit ]

Buddhist practices of anointing are largely derived from Indian practices but tend to be less elaborate and more ritualized. Buddhists may sprinkle assembled practitioners with water or mark idols of Buddha or the Bodhisattvas with cow or yak butter. Flower-scented water is also used, as are ink-water and "saffron water" stained yellow using saffron or turmeric.[citation needed]

Judaism [ edit ]

In antiquity, use of a holy anointing oil was significant in the Hebrews' consecration of priests,[20] the Kohen Gadol (High Priest),[21][22] and the sacred vessels.[23] Prophets[n 5] and the Israelite kings were also anointed as well, the kings from a horn.[27] Anointment by the chrism prepared according to the ceremony described in the Book of Exodus[28] was considered to impart the "Spirit of the Lord".[27] It was performed by Samuel in place of a coronation of either Saul[29] or David. The practice was not always observed and seems to have been essential only at the consecration of a new line or dynasty.

Because of its importance, the High Priest and the king were sometimes called "the Anointed One".[n 6] The term—מָשִׁיחַ‎, Mashiaẖ—gave rise to the prophesied figure of the Messiah (q.v.)[n 7] and a long history of claimants.

The expression "anoint the shield" which occurs in Isaiah[37] is a related or poetic usage, referring to the practice of rubbing oil on the leather of the shield to keep it supple and fit for war. The practice of anointing a shield predates the anointing other objects in that the "smearing" (Hebrew "mashiach") of the shield renewed the leather covering on a wooden shield. A victorious soldier was elevated on his shield by his comrades after a battle or upon his selection as a new king. The idea of protection and selection arose from this and was extended to the idea of a "chosen one" thus leading to the modern concept of a Messiah (Hebrew for the one who was anointed.)

Christianity [ edit ]

The Anointing of Jesus, by William Hole, 1906. , by William Hole, 1906.

Christianity developed from the association of Jesus of Nazareth with the Jewish prophesies of an "Anointed One".[n 8] His epithet "Christ" is a form of the Greek equivalent of the Hebrew title. He was not anointed by the High Priest in accordance with the ceremony described in Exodus, but he was considered to have been anointed by the Holy Spirit during his baptism.[n 9] A literal anointing of Jesus also occurs when he was lavishly oiled by Mary of Bethany.[44][45] Performed out of affection, the anointment is said by Jesus to have been preparation for his burial.

In the New Testament, John describes "anointing from the Holy One"[46] and "from Him abides in you".[47] Both this spiritual anointment[citation needed] and literal anointment with oil are usually associated with the Holy Spirit. Eastern Orthodox churches in particular attach great importance to the oil said to have been originally blessed by the Twelve Apostles.

The practice of "chrismation" (baptism with oil) appears to have developed in the early church during the later 2nd century as a symbol of Christ, rebirth, and inspiration.[48] The earliest surviving account of such an act seems to be the letter written "To Autolycus" by Theophilus, bishop of Antioch. In it, he calls the act "sweet and useful", punning on khristós (Greek: χριστóς, "anointed") and khrēstós (χρηστóς, "useful"). He seems to go on to say "wherefore we are called Christians on this account, because we are anointed with the oil of God",[49][n 10] and "what person on entering into this life or being an athlete is not anointed with oil?"[48] The practice is also defended by Hippolytus in his "Commentary on the Song of Songs"[50] and by Origen in his "Commentary on Romans". Origen opines that "all of us may be baptized in those visible waters and in a visible anointing, in accordance with the form handed down to the churches".[51]

Anointing was particularly important among the Gnostics. Many early apocryphal and Gnostic texts state that John the Baptist's baptism by water was incomplete and that anointment with oil is a necessary part of the baptismal process. The Gospel of Philip claims that

chrism is superior to baptism, for it is from the word "chrism" that we have been called "Christians", certainly not from the word "baptism". And it is from the "chrism" that the "Christ" has his name. For the Father anointed the Son, and the Son anointed the apostles, and the apostles anointed us. He who has been anointed possesses everything. He possesses the Resurrection, the Light, the Cross, the Holy Spirit. The Father gave him this in the bridal chamber; he merely accepted the gift. The Father was in the Son and the Son in the Father. This is the Kingdom of Heaven.

In the Acts of Thomas, the anointing is the beginning of the baptismal ritual and essential to becoming a Christian, as it says God knows his own children by his seal and that the seal is received through the oil. Many such chrismations are described in detail through the work.

In medieval and early modern Christianity, the oil from the lamps burnt before the altar of a church was felt to have particular sanctity. New churches and altars were anointed at their four corners during their dedication, as were tombs, gongs, and some other ritual instruments and utensils.

In particular, James 5:14-15 illustrates that anointing oil, applied in faith, is a powerful weapon against a spiritual attack of the enemy, which can translate into a disease designed to destroy the body.

Roman Catholicism [ edit ]

The Roman Catholic, Anglican and Lutheran Churches bless three types of holy oils for anointing: "Oil of the Catechumens" (abbreviated OS, from the Latin oleum sanctum, meaning holy oil), "Oil of the Infirm" (OI), and "Sacred Chrism" (SC). The first two are said to be blessed, while the chrism is consecrated.

The Oil of Catechumens is used to anoint the catechumens (adults preparing for reception into the church) just before their receipt of the Sacrament of Baptism. Infants receiving the Sacrament of Baptism are also anointed with that same oil during the rite of Baptism, just before receiving the Sacrament. In the early Church converts seeking baptism underwent a period of formation known as catechumenate, and they received one or more anointings with the oil of cathecumens during this period of instruction, with the purpose of expelling evil spirits. The oil of catechumens is also used in the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite to anoint the hands of a newly ordained Priest during the rite of Ordination to the presbyterate (whereas the head and the hands of a Bishop are anointed with Sacred Chrism during the rite of Episcopal Consecration). In the newer, ordinary form of the Roman Rite, both Priests and Bishops are anointed with Chrism, and the oil of catechumens ceased to be used for ordinations: in the rite of priestly ordination the hands are anointed with Chrism and in the rite of episcopal ordination only the head is anointed with Chrism. The Roman Pontifical of the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite also contemplates the use of the oil of Catechumens for the anointing of Kings and Queens during a rite of Coronation (although some countries were allowed to use different rites of Coronation other than the rite contained in the Roman Pontifical, and some of those rites prescribed the use of Chrism for the anointing of the monarch. This was the case, for instance, of the old French ritual).

Oil of the Infirm is used for administration of the Sacrament of Anointing of the Sick (known as Extreme Unction in the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite), the ritual treatment of the sick and infirm through anointment.

Sacred Chrism is used in the Sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation, and Holy Orders. It is also used in the dedication of new Churches, new Altars, and in the consecration of new patens and chalices for use in Mass. In the case of the Sacrament of Baptism, it must be noted that the subject receives two distinct unctions: one with the oil of catechumens, prior to being baptized, and then, after baptism with water is performed, the subject receives an unction with Chrism. In the case of the Sacrament of Confirmation, anointing with Chrism is the essential part of the Rite.

Any bishop may consecrate the holy oils. They normally do so every Holy Thursday at a special "Chrism Mass". In the Gelasian sacramentary, the formula for doing so is:

Send forth, O Lord, we beseech thee, thy Holy Spirit the Paraclete from heaven into this fatness of oil, which thou hast deigned to bring forth out of the green wood for the refreshing of mind and body; and through thy holy benediction may it be for all who anoint with it, taste it, touch it, a safeguard of mind and body, of soul and spirit, for the expulsion of all pains, of every infirmity, of every sickness of mind and body. For with the same thou hast anointed priests, kings, and prophets and martyrs with this thy chrism, perfected by thee, O Lord, blessed, abiding within our bowels in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Orthodoxy and Greek Catholicism [ edit ]

In the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches, confirmation is known as chrismation. The Mystery of Chrismation is performed immediately after the Mystery of Baptism as part of a single ceremony. The ritual employs the sacred myron (μύρον, "chrism"), which is said to contain a remnant of oil blessed by the Twelve Apostles. In order to maintain the apostolic blessing unbroken, the container is never completely emptied but it is refilled as needed, usually at a ceremony held on Holy Thursday at the Patriarchate of Constantinople[53] or the patriarchal cathedrals of the autocephalous churches.[54] At the Patriarchate of Constantinople, the process is under the care of the Archontes Myrepsoi, lay officials of the Patriarchate. Various members of the clergy may also participate in the preparation, but the Consecration itself is always performed by the Patriarch or a bishop deputed by him for that purpose. The new myron contains olive oil, myrrh, and numerous spices and perfumes. This myron is normally kept on the Holy Table or on the Table of Oblation. During chrismation, the "newly illuminate" person is anointed by using the myron to make the sign of the cross on the forehead, eyes, nostrils, lips, both ears, breast, hands, and feet. The priest uses a special brush for this purpose. Prior to the 20th century, the myron was also used for the anointing of Orthodox monarchs.

The oil that is used to anoint the catechumens before baptism is simple olive oil which is blessed by the priest immediately before he pours it into the baptismal font. Then, using his fingers, he takes some of the blessed oil floating on the surface of the baptismal water and anoints the catechumen on the forehead, breast, shoulders, ears, hands, and feet. He then immediately baptizes the catechumen with threefold immersion in the name of the Trinity.

Anointing of the sick is called the "Sacred Mystery of Unction". The practice is used for spiritual ailments as well as physical ones, and the faithful may request unction any number of times at will. In some churches, it is normal for all of the faithful to receive unction during a service on Holy Wednesday of Holy Week. The holy oil used at unction is not stored in the church like the myron, but consecrated anew for each individual service. When an Orthodox Christian dies, if he has received the Mystery of Unction and some of the consecrated oil remains, it is poured over his body just before burial. It is also common to bless using oils which have been blessed either with a simple blessing by a priest (or even a venerated monastic), or by contact with some sacred object, such as relics of a saint, or which has been taken from an oil lamp burning in front of a wonderworking icon or some other shrine.[citation needed]

In the Armenian Church, crosses are traditionally not considered holy until they have been anointed and prayed over, thus introducing the Holy Spirit into them. The same ritual was formerly observed in the other Orthodox churches.

Protestantism [ edit ]

Owing to their particular focus upon the action of the Holy Spirit, Pentecostal churches sometimes continue to employ anointing for consecration and ordination of pastors and elders, as well as for healing the sick.[citation needed]

The Pentecostal expression "the anointing breaks the yoke" derives from a passage in Isaiah[55] which discusses the power given the prophet Hezekiah by the Holy Spirit over the tyrant Sennacherib.[citation needed]

Latter-day Saints [ edit ]

The Doctrine and Covenants of the Latter-day Saints (Mormons) contains numerous references to the anointing and healing of the sick by those with authority to do so. Joseph Smith instituted anointing for other purposes on 21 January 1836, during the rites of sanctification and consecration preparatory to the endowment rites practiced in the Kirtland Temple.[56] At the present time, any holder of the Melchizedek Priesthood may anoint the head of an individual who is ill upon request. Olive oil must be used if available, and it must have been consecrated earlier in a short ordinance that any holder of the Melchizedek Priesthood may perform.

Royalty [ edit ]

Ointment in silver box from the coronation of Swedish king Gustav III , 1772. Containing lavender and roses.

In addition to its use for the Israelite kingship, anointing has been an important ritual in Christian rites of Coronation, especially in Europe.

Later French legend held that a vial of oil—the Holy Ampulla—descended from Heaven to anoint Clovis I as King of the Franks following his conversion to Christianity in 493. The Visigoth Wamba is the earliest Catholic king known to have been anointed, although the practice apparently preceded him in Spain.[n 11] The ceremony was performed in 672 by Quiricus, the archbishop of Toledo; despite the king's strongly antisemitic laws, the ceremony hewed closely to the rite described by the Old Testament. It was apparently copied a year later when Flavius Paulus defected and joined the Septimanian rebels he had been tasked with quieting.[n 12] The rite epitomized the Catholic Church's sanctioning the monarch's rule; it was notably employed by usurpers such as Pepin, whose dynasty replaced the Merovingians in France in 751. While it might be argued that the practice subordinated the king to the church, in practice the sacral anointing of kings was seen as elevating the king to priestly or even saintly status. It provided a directly religious aspect to Europe's regimes apart from the church hierarchy and, for political and practical reasons, was seldom performed by the popes. Instead, the anointment was usually administered by a bishop from a major see of the realm, often the national primate.[citation needed] Lupoi argues that this set in motion the conflicting claims that developed into the Investiture Crisis. At the same time, royal unction recontextualized the elections and popular acclamations still legally responsible for the elevation of new rulers. They were no longer understood as autonomous authorities but merely agents in service of God's will. The divine right of kings was thus gradually recreated in a Christian context, continuing even when monarchs might choose to forgo the anointment ceremony altogether. The supposedly indelible nature of anointment was alluded to in Shakespeare's Richard II:

Not all the water in the rough rude sea

Can wash the balm off an anointed king.[65]

In Eastern Orthodoxy, the anointing of a new king is considered a Sacred Mystery. The act is believed to empower him—through the grace of the Holy Spirit—with the ability to discharge his divinely appointed duties, particularly his ministry in defending the faith. The same myron used in Chrismation is used for the ceremony. In Russian Orthodox ceremonial, the anointing took place during the coronation of the tsar towards the end of the service, just before his receipt of Holy Communion. The sovereign and his consort were escorted to the Holy Doors (Iconostasis) of the cathedral and jointly anointed by the metropolitan. Afterwards, the tsar was taken alone through the Holy Doors—an action normally reserved only for priests—and received communion at a small table set next to the Holy Table.

In the present day, royal unction is less common, being practiced only upon the monarchs of Britain and of Tonga.[citation needed] The utensils for the practice are sometimes reckoned as regalia, like the ampulla and spoon used in the former Kingdom of France and the anointing horns used in Sweden and Norway.[citation needed] The Biblical formula is not necessarily followed. For the 1626 coronation of King Charles I of England, the holy oil was made of a concoction of orange, jasmine, distilled roses, distilled cinnamon, and ben oil.

See also [ edit ]

Coronation, the assumption of an office by receiving a crown

Enthronement, the assumption of an office by sitting upon a throne

Investiture, the assumption of an office by receiving an item of clothing

Messiah, the "Anointed One" in Jewish and Christian and Islamic scripture and lore

Notes [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

References [ edit ]

Further reading [ edit ]
====================
This is the first in our Future Of series, where we analyze and dissect one facet of life that’s been impacted by digital technology. Today, we look at libraries.

“You have no idea how eager I am to ensure that the notion of ‘library’ does not disappear – it’s too important.” – Vint Cerf, 2013

Vint Cerf is considered a founding father of the Internet. He was involved in a project that saw the first ever message sent from one computer to another on the ARPANET, a predecessor to the Internet, back in 1969, before he received his doctorate from UCLA. Today, Cerf is VP and Chief Internet Evangelist for a rather large online company you may have heard of – Google.

As with many traditional industries, Google has had an immeasurable impact on how people access information. So when journalism professor Jeff Jarvis asked Cerf what he saw as the future of libraries , his expressions of “deep concern” about the way information will be stored and passed through generations perhaps held more resonance than most.

But what does the future hold for libraries? And more specifically, how can we control and manage the staggering amount of data that’s processed each day online and through other digital forms?

We take a look.

The future of libraries

According to Lionel Casson, author of Libraries in the Ancient World, libraries are thought to date back as far as 2300 BC.

“Archeologists frequently find clay tablets in batches, sometimes batches big enough to number in the thousands. The batches consist for the most part of documents [such as] bills, deliveries, receipts, inventories, loans, marriages contracts, divorce settlements, court judgements and so on.”

Some also contained literature, writing exercises, hymns and other texts we’d perhaps more closely associate with the modern concept of a library.

To you and me, a library probably means a bricks-and-mortar building filled with paper books that anyone can access. But at a more abstract level, it’s really just a repository of information – this could be books, CDs, DVDs, journals and everything in between. And it doesn’t even have to be a physical entity either.

Like it or not, Wikipedia is a library. Think back to the pre-Internet days – where would you go to find out what movies Laurel & Hardy starred in together? Or gen up on Neoclassical architecture? Chances are you’d buy a new book, peruse a second-hand bookstore or, indeed, visit the library. Now, you’d likely plug a few search terms into Google and click one of the first links that come up on the subject – and there’s a good chance your path to knowledge would start with Wikipedia.

Heck, despite Google’s claims that it’s not the Internet, it pretty much is in many people’s eyes. The Internet is like one giant library, and Google taps this information to display key information directly within its search results. Want to know how many calories are in a banana? Google’s Knowledge Graph will tell you.

And what about your own portable library that sits on your Kindle, Kobo or Nook e-reader? Your physical bookshelves at home may be filled to the brim, but is there much on there dated post-2010? That’s not a rhetorical question by the way, leave your response in the comments at the bottom.

There’s little doubt that the library of the future is ‘digital’ – while that’s not a problem per se, there are issues that must be addressed.

Bit rot

“I am really worried right now, about the possibility of saving ‘bits’ but losing their meaning and ending up with bit-rot,” said Vint Cerf. When he previously said he had “deep concerns”, this is chiefly what he was referring to.

“This means, you have a bag of bits that you saved for a thousand years, but you don’t know what they mean, because the software that was needed to interpret them is no longer available, or it’s no longer executable, or you just don’t have a platform that will run it. This is a serious, serious problem and we have to solve that.”

With physical books, there are some problems – fires are particularly hazardous, while language issues have made some older texts tricky to decipher. But as we saw with the Rosetta Stone, humans get there in the end.

The relatively recent introduction and popularization of digitized media means that we should be looking at how this information will be stored and protected for posterity. Not just one or two generations, but thousands of years.

Consider all those floppy disks from school and college that are pretty much redundant now? They’re not entirely inaccessible, but it’s unlikely you’d be able to access that old essay you wrote at the drop of a hat. Now, amplify that scenario over tens, or hundreds of years and it’s evident there is a genuine risk of losing a lot of information with the introduction of new formats and storage devices.

According to Cerf, this will require a whole new infrastructure that has yet to be invented:

“We have to retain this notion of a place where information is accumulated and kept and curated and managed. So for some people, who imagine ‘Well, it’s all digital, and all we have to do is run the Google index’, I don’t think that’s exactly right. I think there’s a whole infrastructure that has to be not only created, but invented and sustained in order to make sure the knowledge that we’ve been digitizing is retained and reusable over a long period of time. Otherwise, we’ll have denied ourselves what is the most important potential I can think of – to have all the knowledge of human-kind at our fingertips.”

So with Wikipedia effectively killing off the 244-year-old Britannica Encyclopedia, we find ourselves in a position where we must design, develop and maintain a system that will survive the foggy ruins of time.

What might the libraries of the future look like?

I don’t know about you, but I can’t remember the last time I set foot in a public library. Actually that’s a lie – the last time I set foot in a library was in 2010, when I moved into a new home and my broadband wasn’t set up yet. My local library offers Internet, so I spent a whole week camped up, gratefully receiving the free WiFi. It was either that, or McDonald’s.

Before that though, I don’t think I’d set foot in a library since the late 1990s. Libraries are important parts of the community though – it’s not just about reading a book for free. Not everybody can afford a laptop and home Internet, so by offering additional services gratis to members, libraries are trying to remain relevant within the digital age.

Whether this will remain the case five or ten years from now, remains to be seen. Governments and local authorities around the world will continue to look for ways to cut costs, and if they see that x% of the community now have fiber broadband at home, the axe might just be dropped on all those lovely book repositories.

So what might a library of the future look like? The best way to get an idea is to look at some of the endeavors going on at present.

Google recently revealed it was providing “design know-how” to the architects hired by Future Library, an initiative that’s striving to transform Greece’s public libraries into “media labs and hubs of creativity, innovation and learning”. The aim is to attract segments of society who spend little time there – entrepreneurs, students, unemployed, and immigrants.

In many ways, Greece is as good a place as any for such a project – while the Library of Alexandria was opened in Egypt round about the fourth century BC, many of its books actually came from pilgrimages to the book fairs of Rhodes and Athens in Greece.

The Stavros Niarchos Foundation is pumping €560m to build a Cultural Center, which will play host to the National Library of Greece and the Greek National Opera. Feeding into this is the Future Library, and Google’s role will be to “review the architect submissions, provide technical comment on all proposals and assist the Foundation” towards making the project a reality.

“Some might have imagined that the Internet would make libraries superfluous or irrelevant,” says Dionisis Kolokotsas, Public Policy & Government Relations Manager, Greece. “But the reality looks like quite the opposite – the Internet can help libraries become a center for new digital learning and a point of reference for local communities.”

Of course, a big part of this will be to promote Google products among librarians – including Search, Google+, YouTube and more. But that’s to be expected, right?

In November last year, the Future Library hosted a so-called ‘Un-Conference’ about the library of the future, which engaged some 6,000 kids, parents and other professionals from across Greece, consisting of 98 events in 8 libraries in Central Macedonia. You can view a snapshot of the initiative here.

On the surface at least, it seems like the writing is very much on the wall for physical bricks-and-mortar libraries, but there is a clear and tangible desire to preserve this traditional hub of learning. But as we’re seeing in Greece, we must recognize the need to evolve these age-old institutions.

We could do worse than take a cue from the Hunt Library at North Carolina’s State University, which features around 100 group study rooms and technology-equipped spaces to aid learning, research, and collaboration.



Not only is it a visually-striking space, but it has quirkiness galore, including a robot-driven bookBot – an automated book-delivery system that holds up to 2 million volumes in one-ninth of the space of conventional shelving.

The bookBot is 50 feet-wide by 160-feet long by 50-feet tall, and it delivers books in minutes through requests placed in the libraries’ online catalog. You can actually watch the bookBot in action through a glass wall on the first floor – Robot Alley – as four robots stomp along huge aisles to retrieve materials.

It also houses video games and a 3D printing lab. The beauty? It’s open to everyone, and was funded through the public purse. The desire is there for libraries, what’s needed though is innovation.

Over in San Antonio, the soon-to-launch BiblioTech is seeking to use technology to “remove barriers to library access, enhance education and literacy and promote reading as recreation.” What’s different about this library? Well, there’s not a book in sight.

By all accounts, Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff was inspired to drive the project forward after reading Walter Issacson’s biography on Steve Jobs. Indeed, rather than aisle-upon-aisle of dusty books, there will be e-readers to share, computer terminals, laptops and tablets.

At Harvard, a temporary pop-up Labrary space was previously set up in the middle of Harvard Square, serving to prototype new library ideas, bringing together librarians, students, faculty and members of the wider community.

In England, the Arts Council is diving deep into Envisioning the library of the future, a research project designed to help it understand, well, the future for libraries and what can be done to develop them for a digital future – part of this included a review of future trends.

Even airports are getting involved.

“When Kansas State Librarian Joanne Budler — Library Journal’s 2013 Librarian of the Year — looked around at passengers waiting at a baggage claim a few years ago, what she saw were readers,” writes Ian Chant in the Library Journal. “Or potential readers, at least. The waiting passengers were nearly all focused on their phones. Budler was working out how she could shift that focus from a phone to a book when she realized it might not be a shift, but a combination.”

The resulting Books on the Fly campaign, which kicked off initially at Manhattan Regional Airport, involves the public scanning a QR code which are placed on cards sporadically throughout the airport. This then sends the user to the Kansas State Library’s eLending service. Non-members are redirected to Project Gutenberg’s mobile-optimized site, where they are invited to download books that have passed into the public domain.

These are just some of the initiatives currently underway that involve libraries around the world. We’re very much in a transition period – it’s clear the desire to preserve the library concept is there. Whether 10, 20 or 100 years from now that means completely paperless reading areas, involving touchscreen information portals and robotic assistants as guides, remains to be seen.

The bigger picture

The broader question here perhaps isn’t libraries, but education on the whole. We’ve previously looked at the future of learning in a networked society, which draws on some of the leading minds in education and technology.

“We’re probably at the death of education, right now,” said Stephen Heppell, a Professor at Bournemouth University, who’s regarded as one of the most influential academics in educational technology. “I think the structures and strictures of school, learning from 9 until 3, working on your own…not working with others…I think that’s dead or dying. And I think that learning is just beginning.”

So…how is technology changing the process of learning, exactly? “There’s a very big difference between ‘access to information’, and ‘school’,” said Seth Godin, entrepreneur, author and public figure. “They used to be the same thing. Information is there online, to any one of the billion people who has access to the Internet. So what that means, is if we give access to a 4-year-old, or an 8-year-old or a 12-year-old, they will get the information if they want it.”

If you’ve yet to watch it, this 20-minute video is well worth your time:

Feature Image Credit – Thinkstock

Read next: Boxes adds eBay integration to make selling your treasured possessions even easier
====================
We are part of The Trust Project What is it?

The 60-second story

The local media need to fight through the hordes of press from Japan who always want a sound bite from him. German football’s welcomed a steady influx of Japanese footballers in the last few seasons – most notably the likes of Shinji Kagawa at Borussia Dortmund, who began a fruitful relationship between the two nations.

FACT FILE Date of Birth: 16/4/1986

16/4/1986 Place of Birth: Hyogo, Japan

Hyogo, Japan Position: Striker

Striker Height: 5ft 9in

5ft 9in Former Clubs: Shimizu S-Pulse, VfB Stuttgart

Shimizu S-Pulse, VfB Stuttgart Current Club: Mainz (35 appearances, 15 goals)

Mainz (35 appearances, 15 goals) International record: Japan (74 appearances, 38 goals)

Shinji Okazaki, however, has gone one step further than the short-term explosion of quality from Kagawa; he’s now the leading Japanese scorer for a Bundesliga club in one season with 15 goals.

Idolised by his new supporters in Mainz, Okazaki is more than a traditional penalty-box striker. He was voted this season’s most improved player on the league’s official website. Small in stature, but with a fiery – and controlled – desire in attack, he’s relishing a return to his natural position after two years on the left wing at Stuttgart.

Why you need to know him

He’s the man solving Japan’s striker crisis. We all know about Keisuke Honda, Kagawa and other sterling attacking talents – but the main point of criticism from the Confederations Cup last summer was the lack of proficiency at the apex of their four-man attack. Now, Japan will boast two glowing centre-forwards in the Mainz ace, as well as 1860 Munich striker Yuya Osako.

The striker emerged as a late bloomer, but built up a fine reputation as one of the J-League’s best marksmen. At an early age, he had the sporting genes of his mother who was a former tennis player. Like most young players in Japan, Okazaki found his way in football at university, helping his team to a number of honours that attracted attention of Shimizu S-Pulse.

After his league debut, he soon held down the centre-forward spot. It was then he caught the eye of the national team youth setup, representing his country at the Olympic Games and going on to become an established full international.

He settled in at VfB Stuttgart in 2011, but found himself in an unfamiliar left-sided berth for most of his spell there. “It was a challenge,” he admitted. Yet Mainz’s management had seen enough of his striking prowess in the J-League, with the Japanese national team and, sporadically, at Stuttgart – as his outstanding bicycle kick against Hannover in 2012 showed.

Having moved at the age of 25, two seasons in Stuttgart was perfect. While it was frustrating, sometimes tough, for Okazaki to assert his qualities on the team, he made a quick transition to settle into German culture. One factor was the man-management of Bruno Labaddia, whom Okazaki owed a lot to in his early days at Stuttgart.

It was clear, though, that something had to give. Okazaki’s new-found position was restrictive in what the Japan international could offer to the team. And so he penned a three-year-deal with Mainz at the beginning of this season – and he’s been one of the signings of the campaign.

“I have gained a lot of self-confidence this year,” he said in an interview. “The move to Mainz was a godsend for me.”

This self-confidence is clear to see on the pitch. When the teams are announced at the Coface Arena, Okazaki’s surname is regularly met with the most vociferous response. He’s an idol – he embodies the work-ethic of the club who have performed remarkably in the top flight over the last 10 years.

Now he wants to take this into the national team under Alberto Zaccheroni. He’s racked up an impressive 74 caps, scoring 38 goals in the process. But now, more than ever, Okazaki’s presence will be immensely appreciated in the team, as he fills the problematic hole at centre-forward and attempts to prove himself a crucial component in allowing the likes of Honda and Kagawa to thrive.

Strengths

His scoring record in the Bundesliga this season is special to say the least. But that isn’t his most endearing quality – frankly, Okazaki will run himself into the ground. He’s a work-horse, shuttling across the pitch to press opposition defences, while willingly chasing after many lost causes as Mainz look to change from defence to attack in an instant.

Even in the air, Okazaki is a threat. He’s less than 1.75m, but he’ll win his fair share of headers due to the spring he possesses from a standing position. For hours on end after school, he’d spend time with his sports coach, working for hours that’s evidently paid off – precision, dominance and with a sprightly spring in his step.

It’s no wonder Mainz are happy to give him the ball from any distance when he’s leading the line with his back to goal.

Weaknesses

Okazaki’s first touch can let him down at times. He’ll make up for that by probably securing possession at the second or third attempt, purely down to his incredible work-rate and tenacity to win the ball back. He would, perhaps, be the perfect centre-forward if his first touch was a little more secured rather than following his own style.

They said….

“He is always dangerous and can make the difference on the pitch," said former coach Thomas Tuchel. “We'd always take a close look at him when we played Stuttgart and we liked his good movement and work-rate.”

Did you know

Okazaki has even released a book in Japan about his rise to Bundesliga status. Maybe, he’s a bit harsh on himself – “no talent or technique… feet simply too slow… not very good at headers either” – but it provides an inspirational tale of how you can work hard to achieve goals and rub the words of a former school teacher right in his face. It’s got some good reviews, too.

In 2007, Okazaki seeked out expert advice on how to improve his running and co-ordination with the ball. Tatsuo Sugimoto, the former Japan 100m sprint champion who competed at Barcelona 1992, became his personal trainer and sought to improve his running style. Sugimoto had studied in Germany and came up with ground-breaking methods on back posture, the importance of the spine and co-ordination with the ball and without.

What happens next?

Okazaki really can become a difference-maker to the Samurai Blues at the World Cup. The team was performing in fine harmony at the Confederations Cup, combining a dazzling attacking synergy with some intense pressing in the final third. But goals were hard to come by, and so Okazaki has a pivotal role to play. Whether that leads to a bigger move remains to be seen. At 28, the striker seems settled at Mainz and will have the prospect of European football and a new coach to look forward to next season.

Talentspotter ratings

Shooting 7 • Heading 7 • Passing 5 • Tackling 6 • Pace 8 • Dribbling 5 • Creativity 5 • Work-rate 10
====================
The activist group Queer Rising had announced a rally against the recent spate of hate crimes against gay men in New York City. It it planned for Thursday evening from 7 pm till 9:30 pm at the corner of 7th Avenue and W. 33rd street outside Madison Square Garden, near where the assaults took place.

QUEER RISING — a grassroots organization created to demand full equality for all queer people through nonviolent direct action — invites ALL members of the LGBTQ community and our allies to STAND TOGETHER in a RALLIED RESPONSE to the DUAL HATE-CRIMES that occurred in Midtown NYC on May 5 (outside Madison Square Garden) and May 10 (outside the W.34th St PATH Station).

JOIN THE RALLY: On Thursday May 16, beginning at 7:00pm, Queer Rising and members of the public will rally outside Madison Square Garden (specifically the SW-corner of 7th Avenue and W.33rd Street), demanding attention be paid to the protection of all New Yorkers on MSG vicinity during games, and to denounce any violence against the LGBTQ community. At 8:15pm, a short-list of participating community leaders with speak.

JOIN THE MARCH: After the Rally, we will march through Chelsea, going south along 8th Avenue, ending at Horatio Street/Jackson Square Park.

WHAT TO BRING: Posters declaring your position on anti-violence, safety on the streets, or the Knicks and MSG's responsibility to denounce anti-gay violence.

ATTENTION: At Madison Square Garden, we will be face-to-face with individuals who may share the same mind-set as the May 5th attackers. Therefore, it is IMPERATIVE that we DO NOT provoke anyone. We will simply be providing information (via flyers and posters) to Knicks fans, informing them of the incident and our demands for safety.
====================
The Obama administration will argue before a federal appeals court on Tuesday that law enforcement must regain the ability to use GPS tracking devices without a warrant, which it says is necessary to continue the fight against terrorism.

The use of GPS devices in warrantless snooping has been illegal since January 2012, when the Supreme Court ruled that vehicles are private property protected by the Fourth Amendment, which guarantees freedom from unreasonable search and seizure. If the Obama administration is successful on its appeal however, GPS devices will be fair game for police nationwide.

The administration’s brief (PDF) in U.S. v. Katzin, filed with the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia, goes even further than just arguing for law enforcement’s access to the technology: the administration says vehicle tracking is necessary to keep the nation safe from terrorist attacks as well.

Despite the Supreme Court’s ruling, the president’s attorneys contend the original arguments are invalid because the so-called “automobile exception” to search warrants also applies to data showing where that vehicle is and has been, not just what may be inside.

The brief contends that passing on warrantless GPS tracking when it is a potential investigative tool has a “minimal” effect on safeguarding privacy, but a “great expense” to law enforcement and public safety. “Requiring a warrant and probably cause before officers may attach a GPS device to a vehicle, which is inherently mobile and may no longer be at the location observed when the warrant is obtained, would seriously impede the government’s ability to investigate drug trafficking, terrorism, and other crimes.”

The brief adds that the legal standard for “slap-on” GPS tracking devices should not be “probable cause” as the Constitution sets out for searches of private property, but “reasonable suspicion,” a lesser standard that allows an officer to begin a search for probable cause.





“Just because a technology wasn’t around when the Constitution was written doesn’t mean that it’s not covered,” American Civil Liberties Union attorney Catherine Crump said in an advisory. “The fundamental privacy rights established by the Fourth Amendment require that police justify their actions and show probable cause to a judge before they can conduct invasive surveillance like constant location tracking. The ‘automobile exception’ was created so police could find contraband hidden in cars, not so they could monitor a person’s movements nonstop for days or even months on end.”

——

Photo: Shutterstock.com.
====================
Just over a year ago, I went to my very first international Esperanto event and I can still remember how nervous I was. I was new to the language so I had no idea what to expect. I had been learning it for six months but had never spoken it with anyone else yet. I eventually mustered up the courage to book tickets to an event, but I was flying completely blind. I was afraid that no one else would turn up or it might even be a scam. As it turns out, it was a fantastic event where I made lots of friends and had a brilliant time.

There are probably a lot of Esperanto learners in a similar position. You’ve been practicising Esperanto on Duolingo and want to speak it but don’t know what the events are like. It’s a bit of a commitment to go to an event as they are usually abroad and cost several hundred euro. So I’ll give you a breakdown of what to expect. I’ve been to five events six times and I’ve noticed a common theme with a lot of them. However, I’ve only been to European events (I don’t know what the others are like) and I’m going to focus mainly on the youth events (the Universala Kongreso is in a category of its own). Youth in Esperanto terms is under 30, though plenty of over 30 year olds come too. I’ll give a guide to the different events tomorrow, but right now I’m thinking of the likes of IJK, SES, JES etc

So to begin, most events are held in small towns usually in Central Europe near the border (to make it as easy as possible for people to reach it). The events are mostly held in self-contained buildings a little apart from the town and the buildings are normally former student dorms or summer camps. In fact a lot of these events resemble summer camps, not least in the fact that most of them are held during summer. The buildings range from decaying former communist to actually really good quality. Almost everything will happen on site from sleeping, eating, classes and hanging out. Depending on the event and where it is held, you can expect 150-300 people and they normally cost 200-300 euro (not including flights).

So the first thing you do is decide where you want to sleep. You have three options depending on how much you want to spend and how comfortable you want to be. The cheapest option is to simply bring a tent and pitch it beside the building (which a few people do). Then there is the amasloĝejo, where a dozen or so people on sleeping bags share a room. I’ve never done this so I don’t know what it’s like but it doesn’t sound comfortable or private, but it’s probably very social. The third option is to have a bed, which I go for every time. This is like a hostel where you have between 2-6 people in a room, while basic, is sufficient.

Next is the food (served in the manĝejo). To be honest, no one ever goes to an Esperanto event for the food. It’s basically canteen food, that is to say not very nice, but usually sufficient. The easiest way to meet new people and make friends is during the meals where you can simply sit down next to a new person and introduce yourself. Complaining about the food is a popular ice breaker. Also Esperanto has the highest proportion of vegetarians and vegans I’ve ever seen. They’re not quite a majority, but there are still loads. So if you don’t eat meat, there’s always a vegetarian and usually vegan option.

So once you’ve managed to navigate your way through a foreign country that inexplicably doesn’t speak Esperanto and managed to arrive at the event, you go to the akceptejo and check in. By an unwritten law all Esperanto events begin on a Saturday or Sunday, but the first day is just for people to arrive and settle in, so not much happens. At most there will be a few games and ice breakers to introduce people and learn their names (which you will quickly forget). At Esperanto events everyone wear name badges the whole time because there is no way you can remember everyone’s name.

Then the real fun begins. Each event has its own focus but the basic theme is to have lectures, talks, workshops and games during the day. These can be on literally any topic at all and the second day is usually about the language and culture of the host country. There are dance lessons, language classes, films with Esperanto subtitles and even an occasional talk about Esperanto (though not many, you find very little propaganda at a youth event). Or you can make your own fun. There’s usually a common room where you can hang out, chat, play cards (cards is very popular at Esperanto events). As these events are usually held in Central European countries during summer, it’s usually incredibly hot, which means a trip to the local swimming pool at least once.

The evenings are probably the best time as that’s when the concert is. Various Esperanto bands and DJs play each night, with a wide range of music styles. A room is converted into a bar selling really cheap drink to keep you going. You can dance, sing, drink and talk the night away. There are a few songs always played that you’ll quickly get used to like Sola, Skavirino, Liza Pentras Bildojn, Ĉu Vi Volas Danci and of course La Bambo. You’ll quickly learn that this song has a very special meaning in Esperanto. There is a special dance where people link arms to form a circle while everyone else dances inside the circle. If you’re inside, you can kiss the cheek of whoever you want and swap places with them until someone kisses you. This continues for as long as the song lasts which is usually 20 minutes.

After the concerts finish the gufujo (literally owlery) opens up. This is a clam and relaxing non-alcoholic area, filled with candles and soft music. Here people drink tea and talk quietly until the early hours of the morning. It is a great break after the concert and is basically a chill out zone. There are sometimes concerts with mellow music here.

There are other events like the Internacia Vespero (International Evening) where people perform songs and dances from their native country and is essentially an international talent show. Like all talent shows it is hit-and-miss with some brilliant talent and some awful cringe. There is the Internacia Kulinara Festivalo where people bring food and drink from their native country. Due to difficulties travelling, having space in your suitcase, especially with flights and keeping food fresh, most people just bring spirits. This means you can appreciate the cultures of the world in a somewhat drunk state.

There is always one day (usually a Wednesday) set aside for a full day of excursions. These are trips to the surrounding area that can be hikes up mountains, tours of castles, walks through museums or anything at all. There is also smaller half day excursions too. There are sports such as a growing tradition for an Esperanto football team to be formed and lose badly against a local team. There are games like Homlupo and Kartoj Kontraŭ Esperantujo.

However, all of this is beside the point. The best part of Esperanto events is not the talks or the trips or even the games, but the people. So long as there are good friendly people there, it doesn’t whether the event is well organised or not, you’ll still have fun. The difference between the best and worst event I went to had nothing to do with the event itself but the other people there. The best part is the new friends you make and the memories you create.

There is a special etoso (atmosphere) at Esperanto events that is hard to describe. Once you go, you’ll know what I’m talking about, but I don’t know how to explain it to someone who hasn’t gone. There is a certain feeling or culture that is only found at Esperanto events. It is also the most liberal and open minded place I have ever been. As mentioned before, there is a huge number of vegetarians as well as a lot of other people who would be thought of as odd elsewhere. There are a lot of openly gay and lesbian couples and nobody is bothered as well as many transgender people (in fact, all the transgender people I know, I met at Esperanto events). It’s the kind of place where a lot of people walk around barefoot (which I tried and is actually quite enjoyable). Essentially it’s a really open minded place where people are comfortable to be themselves.

There is a running joke that Esperanto should be called Edzperanto (a play on the word for spouse) due to the number of couples that are made during events. When you mix young people and alcohol, it’s inevitable that they will get together and Esperanto events are no exception. From my experience there are surprisingly few single Esperantists either because people convince their partner to learn it or people quickly pair off. There are even couples who only get to see each other at Esperanto events once or twice a year. Many people who first met at an Esperanto event have later married and even raised their children as native Esperanto speakers and use Esperanto as their home language.

Far too soon, it all comes to an end. Esperanto events are normally a week long, which is long enough for you to forget that you speak another language other than Esperanto (sometimes I even start thinking in Esperanto) but not long enough. The last day is always a tearful day as people still hungover from the night before (the last night is always a big party) say their farewells. You’d be surprised how good of a friend you can make in a week and many friendships last through years of events. But at the end, you don’t say goodbye, you say Ĝis La Revido! (Until Next Time!)

Advertisements
====================
26 October 2017 00:00, UTC

Unknown hackers attack computers and resources around the world again. This new virus is called BadRabbit, and first of all, if you want to efficiently protect their data from it, go to C:/Windows and create two files there – infpub.dat and cscc.dat, then make them read-only. Or ask someone who it better at Windows than you to do this. This has been confirmed to be an efficient vaccination by cyber experts.

Wallets mentioned in the hackers’ messages, according to Bitcoin wallet monitoring site, have had only three transactions yet – while the virus demands 0.05 BTC and promises to raise fees in the future, these transactions are very little and almost certainly made by those who search for hackers as a test of some kind. The media previously stated there were no transactions on these wallets at all. Yet another hacker team puts the reputation of cryptocurrencies in jeopardy...

Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and Germany are the main countries where this virus has spread, with unconfirmed sightings in the United States. In case with Russia, even big media companies were attacked, including Interfax and Fontanka.

Thanks to the fact hackers use Bitcoin, we can at least deduce who felt for their promises of decryption (no one, it turns out, as people learned from WannaCry and other previous ransomware attacks that racketeers rarely fulfill their promises).

And yes, please check every Adobe Flash update file for viruses. BadRabbit authors chose fake Adobe Flash update executables as the primary means of infiltration to the system.

Found a mistake? Select the text and press CTRL+ENTER

Share:

Read the best crypto news analysis here! bitnewstoday.com Bitcoin, investments, regulation and other cryptocurrencies
====================
Our next interview from ESL Pro League Season 4 Finals is with Óscar "mixwell" Cañellas, who talked about OpTic's result at ESL One New York, changes in the team and facing ex-teammate Christian "loWel" Garcia Antoran in Brazil.

OpTic began their journey in São Paulo with two dominating wins, 16-2 on Train versus Liquid and 16-4 on Cobblestone against Immortals.

Their third match out of four didn't go as planned, as they fell short to mousesports on Cache 10-16. After their latest match, we talked to Oscar "mixwell" Cañellas to find out what the result in New York meant for the team and get his thoughts on OpTic's matches so far.

In New York you showed some good results against top-tier competition, what did it mean for the team? Well the first day in New York was really bad, I played my worst game since I joined OpTic. SK is really good on Train, we won both pistols but we only got nine rounds. And on the second map fnatic destroyed us, but we did a mental reset and the next day we played really well. I can see the improvement with the addition of tarik.



mixwell's OpTic are at two wins and one loss
====================
Singer Sonu Nigam, after he had his head tonsured in response to a reward announced by a Muslim cleric. (Satish Bate/HT Photo)

Two men stabbed a Gopalpura resident on Wednesday evening, after a disagreement on singer Sonu Nigam’s social media rant against the azaan turned violent.

Sources said one of the victims, Shivam Rai, had spoken in favour of Nigam’s stand against the use of loudspeakers for the Muslim call for prayer in a Facebook post. This infuriated the accused, Mohammad Nagori and Faizan Khan, spurring them to threaten him over the phone.

“Later, they asked me to meet them in Freeganj area. When I reached there with my friend, Ayush Shreewas, they attacked us with knives,” Rai told mediapersons. Shreewas, who sustained grave injuries in the attack, was admitted to the district hospital.

Madhavnagar police station in-charge MS Parmar said a case of attempted murder has been registered against the accused under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code. They are yet to be arrested.

First Published: Apr 20, 2017 14:03:18
====================
It’s important to be able to spot when certain phrases are silencing tactics. The concept of compromise can be used to make minorities look irrational, as if their demands to be treated respectfully are complicated and difficult to agree to.

Such tactics that evoke the same type of doubt in a minority’s claims :

Gaslighting . Simple phrases such as “but I’ve never seen that happen,” or “that’s never happened to me” are meant to counter the oppressed’s credibility and make them seem unreliable.

. Simple phrases such as “but I’ve never seen that happen,” or “that’s never happened to me” are meant to counter the oppressed’s credibility and make them seem unreliable. Demanding sources for lived experiences . Sometimes it isn’t enough to the oppressors that a person testifies to living through horrible injustices. Facts are demanded to support the oppressed’s experiences, which are dismissed as “anecdotal evidence.” Which leads to the next point:

. Sometimes it isn’t enough to the oppressors that a person testifies to living through horrible injustices. Facts are demanded to support the oppressed’s experiences, which are dismissed as “anecdotal evidence.” Which leads to the next point: Framing human rights discussions as debates. No one should be able to debate whether or not someone deserves to live peacefully and happily. When oppressors try to engage in “debates” with the oppressed about their situations, the oppressor gets the upper hand, because suddenly the rules of debate apply, and emotions and anecdotal evidence are off limits. The oppressed are forced to discuss their own lives by the oppressor’s rules.

If you have experienced other silencing tactics when discussing racism, sexism, ableism, etc. please share to let others know what and who to be wary of.

(Source: owning-my-truth)
====================
That the IMF is the most unwavering optimist despite fundamentals, facts and reality has been well-documented over the years. For those who still haven't seen the agency's perpetual upward bias in forecasting world growth, a quick scan of the charts below will cement the understanding that all the Washington-based serial bail-outer of insolvent countries is, is a dispenser of optimism and whose agenda is simply to preserve confidence that all is still well. The charts show how just over the past year's six outlook revisions, the IMF has been forced to downgrade, with quarterly precision, its overly optimistic forecast for virtually every part of the world, from the US, to the Euroarea, to China, and of course, the entire world: the black line is the most recent revision set - it also happens to be the lowest one.

US: expect the US 2014 forecast growth to tumble in the next several revisions - it only took 12 months for the IMF's 2013 US GDP growth forecast to drop from 2.4% to 1.9%. Obviously, the 2013 to 2014 hockeystick is laughable at best.

China: so much for the Great Chinese growth miracle:

Euroarea: over-under on how long until Europe's 2014 growth joins 2012 and 2013 in the negative column?

And the entire world:

None of the charts above are surprising. One needs to simply recall the hilarity that has ensued regarding the IMF's constantly changing forecasts of Greek GDP to know just how pathetic ebullient the Keynesian crew at the IMF is when it comes to foreseeing the future.

However, one chart which deserves particular attention not because it is accurate, but because the rate of deterioration is truly troublesome, is the IMF's view on global trade volume of goods and services. It is here that one can clearly see the disastrous impact of global central bank micro-mismanagement, capital misallocation and central planning. In short: global trade is collapsing - even from the point of view of one of the staunchest macro optimists - at a rate unseen since the Great Financial Crisis, and the Great Depression before it.

It is, or should be, very concerning to the Central Planning brotherhood , that where global trade one short year ago, as per the IMF's April 2012 forecast, was supposed to grow 5.6%, they only see a token 3.6% growth. And the year is not over yet: expect further downward revisions to this key metric as the quarters go by, with the 2014 data point also revised much lower when all is said and done.

Sadly, it is the collapse in global trade that is the most direct testament to the disaster that central planning is: because why trade when one's central bank is there to step in and create the perception of artificial growth, which is not really growth, but merely the dilution of money and the latent onboarding of future runaway inflation. At this pace, quite soon trade growth will halt or even turn negative as countries retrench focused entirely on what their central banks can do for them, instead of engaging in simple economics, comparative advantage and developing their own products and services which should otherwise be competitive on the global arena.

Expect this chart too to be ignored for as long as possible, until corporations once again do what they do best in the new Normal: fire thousands, contract CapEx, and focus entirely on short-term shareholder reward like dividends and stock buybacks, which extract as much value from the future of the enterprise and hand it over here and now, for one simple reason: not even corporate CEOs, CFOs and Treasurers harbor any hope that the long-run will bring any notable improvement.

Then again, in a world in which cash flows, and apparently, trade, no longer matter, and the Fed is backstopping literally every aspect of an otherwise normal and healthy global economy, why worry?

Ben's got it covered. All of it.
====================
The following blog post, unless otherwise noted, was written by a member of Gamasutras community.

The thoughts and opinions expressed are those of the writer and not Gamasutra or its parent company.

Overview:

In order to put the release into context it might be important for me to tell you a little bit about myself, I mean who doesn’t enjoy waxing lyrical about themselves? By day I run a fairly large IT team supporting retail, medical, distribution and manufacturing verticals. We look after the standard ICT stuff but have a core competency in development and design. By night I’ve been an indie game developer for about 2 years, I started out with Corona and launched the critically acclaimed (read, more than 100 downloads ;)) Duck Pond, a simple tap and destroy game aimed at kids under the age of 8. At that point I started playing with Unity, and as timing would have it Unity went free for Mobile at around the same time Corona pushed up their license fees.

A no brainer really, Unity as a stack is incredibly solid and while it lacked some of the finesse of the other 2D only engines it more than made up for it with it’s cross platform ability and world class 3D engine.

Fast forward to today, Unity has just released 4.6 with it’s all new GUI system and it has come leaps and bounds in terms of it’s 2D features and workflow. In fact I would argue that it is probably the go to platform for 2D game development today if you take into account the asset store, cross platform capabilities and of course the new GUI.

Game:

Right, so just how easy is it to build a simple twitch style 2D game in Unity 3D? Clearly quite easy if you can build one in under 2 hours?

The idea of the game came from looking at constraints in a 2D space, and what’s more constraining than being trapped in a rotating cube? The cube is a simple creation, it’s a sprite that I put together in photoshop (my art skills are limited to primitive shapes) surrounded by a couple of rectangular “box” colliders that act as bounds to stop whatever is inside the cube falling outside of the cube.

Next up I needed an antogonist, and what better than a little red/pink cube. It’s innocuous in nature and simply follows the laws of physics, there is no AI to speak of but ultimately gravity is going to get you. This too was put together quickly in photoshop, this time I used the rounded rectangle tool to draw the sprite to give it a little more “softness”.

The hero, also a cube was made to be a little larger than the antagonist. He slides around also controlled by gravity, but this time we give you some control. He can jump, a simple tap on your screen pops this fellow in the air. At this point we need to add another constraint to prevent the ever keen gamer of just sticking to the roof and avoiding the antogonist. So, let’s give our hero some fuel, every time he’s airborne he expends fuel and when he’s touching a surface his fuel replenishes. A side effect of gravity means he can’t use the roof as a refueling point because gravity is pushing him back down.

Scoring, how are we going to measure progress? A number of options here but I went with rotations, I added two additional cubes to the mix. One fixed on the left side of the cube and one in the cube hierarchy but located outside of the cube. That way I can measure rotations on trigger (more colliders) as opposed to counting angles, there are a number of solutions here but I went for the quick and dirty one. If it doesn’t impact frame rate, let it be!

Ok, so we’ve got the base mechanics of the game down. It plays nicely and it proved to be quite a challenge in the office. I found people trying to outdo each other, so the next thing to do is add a bragging system and what better than twitter. For this I used a 3rd party twitter component, there are many out there and they don’t tend to cost too much money. Just import and follow the documentation (another reason why I love unity!).

The colour palette didn’t look great, I needed some help here so I went looking for something that would work for the game. I typically use colourlovers.com for my palettes and specifically for this project I used the following one: http://www.colourlovers.com/palette/1930/cheer_up_emo_kid

I use a third party tool called “Screenshot Creator” off the assetstore, it makes the job of doing multiple resolutions a lot easier. You take one shot and it resizes it to your selected resolutions without losing any detail. A real time saver if you are releasing for multiple mobile platforms.

Next I jumped onto oDesk, you can use eLance, 99Designs or one of the many freelance sites out there but my preference is oDesk. I loaded up three requests, a logo an app icon and someone to overlay some text to my screenshots. After looking through the portfolios of some candidates I made my choice and hired some freelancers to make magic with the pixels, something I am incapable of doing.

My initial release was for iOS, so I jumped on to Sensor Tower to look for some appropriate keywords. With the dog show that is the app store it’s important to be found, this is primarily through keywords and organic search. If you are lucky enough to get reviewed (don’t pay for reviews, it’s morally wrong and your customers are not stupid!) you will get some kick off traffic but for organic you need to be selective about your keywords. There is a lot of documentation on ASO and I would recommend looking around before settling on your keyword selection.

Up front when I was thinking about constraints, I remembered one of my favourite quotes:

“I was within and without. Simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life.”

― F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby

And that is where I got the name of the game from. Yes, I would have stuffed a whole bunch of keywords into the title and improved my ASO but again I don’t like that. Forgive me, I’m difficult from time to time and I hate nothing more than a 48 word game or app title (IAP’s come a close second on my hit list of hate).

So, we have a name, a game, our screenshots, and an app icon. Now all that’s left is the preview video. Because it’s easier to determine if you think a game is fun by watching actual game play I went with the simple route. I dumped the game on the iPad and recorded natively via the new OS X onto my macbook.

The final step is the upload to the app store, obviously we shaved off a ton of time by outsourcing some of the graphic components but the whole process has taken less than 2 hours and cost less than $40. So, if you are looking at getting into game development but are worried that it’s going to cost you an arm and a leg: fret not! Happy #unity3d #gamedev.

Contact info: @mdphillipsprod , [email protected]

Links:

Android Free to Play:

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mdphillips.withinandwithout

Apple App Store:

https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/within-and-without/id947008638?ls=1&mt=8

Colour Lovers:

http://www.colourlovers.com

oDesk:

http://www.odesk.com
====================
It is Thursday, July the 27 when Bitcoin’s price returned past $2,500 while at the same time hoisting the market to a worth-to-be-mentioned recovery compared to yesterday’s low flow. All the 15 top Cryptocurrencies that are ranked based on the market capitalization are showing price increase, and on top of them 15 of them presented gains of more than 10 percentage points.

The increase on Thursday followed after a lower flow of the total cryptocurrency market capitalization on July 26 which was at around $83,7 billion but now gained to a mark of $89 billion.

Bitcoin Price Flies Past and Over $2,500

Thursday’s 6.13% price increase carried bitcoin back across the $2,500 level. The bitcoin price is now $2,656, which translates into a market cap of $43.7 billion. The analysts at eToro say that South Korea’s friendly stance to cryptocurrency is currently helping prop up the bitcoin price.

Last week, Keiser Report Host Max Keiser responded to the BIP 91 lock-in:

“by doubling down on his June prediction that a $5,000 bitcoin price was “in sight. Keiser’s prediction is more or less in line with the recent Goldman Sachs analysis suggesting bitcoin will approach $4,000, although his take is obviously more optimistic.”

Nevertheless, the short-term future of the bitcoin price will depend upon how investors react to the upcoming Bitcoin Cash hard fork, which Roger Ver recently endorsed. Bitcoin Cash futures are currently trading at $412 on ViaBTC, according to CoinMarketCap.

Others, however, remain skeptical over Bitcoin’s potential – even in the long-term. Oaktree Capital Management founder Howard Mark issued a memo warning his clients that digital currencies are “not real”. Bank of America echoed that sentiment, telling investors they should not be optimistic about the 2017 bitcoin and ethereum price surge.

Ethereum Price Starts Climbing

The ethereum price dipped below $200 on July 26, but it inched forward 1% on July 27, bringing its present value to $205. That’s an impressive number for an asset that is “not real.” Ethereum’s market cap is now about $19.1 billion. However, ethereum’s single-day trading volume dropped to $415 million after regularly topping $1 billion throughout the past two months.
====================
Quantifying Comcast's Monopoly Power

from the merger-scrutiny dept

Unconcentrated Markets: HHI below 1500

Moderately Concentrated Markets: HHI between 1500 and 2500

Highly Concentrated Markets: HHI above 2500

Comcast is a monopoly. The question is, how much of a monopoly is Comcast, and how much of a monopoly will it be after it absorbs Time-Warner Cable (TWC)?To help quantify market influence, economists use the Herfindahl–Hirschman Index (HHI), a metric that is calculated by adding the squares of the market shares of every firm in an industry. HHI produces a number between 0 (for a perfectly competitive industry) and 10,000 (for an industry with just one firm).Using HHI, antitrust law puts markets into three categories:

For HHI calculations, the question becomes: a percentage of what market? Discussions of the Comcast-TWC merger have often noted companies' shares of both the broadband and cable TV markets are comparable. Although their market shares in Internet and TV are similar, the difference in importance between the two markets cannot be overstated. Residential broadband is how every person reaches the Internet. In time, the Internet will become the way to reach almost all content.



By contrast, cable television is close to being an anachronism. Companies like Netflix, Amazon and YouTube (Google) already provide most of what cable television offers. In addition, new technology—Internet technology—allows much greater flexibility in the content consumers choose. Consumers do not need to subscribe to individual channels or watch advertisements—at least not to the extent they used to.



Because of how important the Internet is, the Comcast-TWC merger is primarily about broadband, not cable television. So the question is, what share of the high-speed Internet service will Comcast have? According to Free Press, Comcast-TWC would have 47% of truly high-speed broadband service. This figure is extremely conservative. It ignores that the Comcast-Verizon duopoly has many methods at its disposal—most importantly, dividing up geographic markets ("I'll take Philadelphia, you take New York") and dividing up entire industries ("I'll take residential broadband, you take wireless").



Comcast's CEO has admitted that Verizon FiOS is Comcast/Time-Warner's only competitor in high-speed Internet service. And, Comcast has admitted that it has 40% of the high-speed broadband market. Comcast-TWC would have a subscriber base that reached 70 million, and, according to CableTV.com, Comcast-TWC service would be available to 70% of the United States. According to WSJ, More than 61% of consumers would have one cable company serving them.



These figures do not take into account regional dominance, which means that they dramatically underestimate the limited consumer choice and market consolidation across industries. Competition (or lack thereof) in geographic markets is extremely significant. Here, by Comcast's own admission, pre-merger Comcast and Time-Warner did not compete in any markets.



In addition, Comcast's national market share does not take into account market share in related markets—which present additional anticompetitive harms, but are not factored into the HHI calculation. For Comcast, its market share ignores its interest in Hulu, NBC Universal, and other content industries. In addition, Comcast ties its high-speed broadband connections to cable television and landline phone service—another factor not taken into account in the HHI calculation.



Recall that markets with a Herfindahl–Hirschman Index (HHI) between 1500 and 2500 are problematic; above that, the market is consolidated. Therefore, Comcast's admission of 40% market share automatically puts the Internet service market into the middle category of a "moderately concentrated" industry. In other words, without factoring in the market share of Comcast's competitors, and using Comcast's own figure, there is still limited competition in high-speed Internet service.



This market share calculation also ignores the effect of dominating local markets, the tying of television and phone service, and the business interest in competing content industries. In short, a raw calculation of market share ignores market power.



Comcast has argued that—regardless of the competitive landscape in Internet service and cable television—the merger will not result in "merger-specific" harm. That is, the Internet may already be monopolized, but allowing it to acquire Time-Warner Cable will not make it any worse.



When analyzing merger-specific harm, antitrust law puts substantial weight on whether a "significant" competitor will be eliminated and how the merger will affect market concentration:

Mergers resulting in highly concentrated markets that involve an increase in the HHI of between 100 points and 200 points potentially raise significant competitive concerns and often warrant scrutiny. Mergers resulting in highly concentrated markets that involve an increase in the HHI of more than 200 points will be presumed to be likely to enhance market power. The presumption may be rebutted by persuasive evidence showing that the merger is unlikely to enhance market power.

According to conservative estimates , Time-Warner has about 13% of broadband customers in the U.S. That means that the increase in HHI resulting from the merger is 169 points. According to the Merger Guidelines, Comcast's acquisition of Time-Warner Cable would "raise significant competitive concerns and warrant scrutiny," even if Comcast didn't have dominant market share (which it does). Scrutiny of the deal reveals that Comcast-TWC would have significant leverage in other industries: cable television, content (such as sports), and phone service.Acquisitions involving a firm with a majority stake are almost always anti-competitive, because, by definition, they occur in a concentrated industry and result in the largest firm gaining market share. When a merger between smaller competitors occurs, it is less likely to be anti-competitive. The best examples of this distinction between dominant-firm acquisitions and non-dominant firm mergers are the Comcast-TWC, Sprint-T-Mobile, and AT&T-DirecTV transactions.Comcast and Time-Warner are the two largest firms in both residential internet service and cable television. By contrast, Sprint and T-Mobile are second-tier competitors, with the third and fourth highest market share in the mobile market, respectively. And the proposed consolidation of AT&T-DirecTV, like the Sprint-T-Mobile transaction, does not result in the elimination of a significant competitor; rather, it unites companies that primarily operate in different, though related, industries.The AT&T and Sprint transactions still require scrutiny. With AT&T and DirecTV, there is a concern that AT&T will leverage its position in the wireless and broadband industries to expand DirecTV's U-verse video service. And, Sprint's acquisition of T-Mobile has raised concerns that consumers will see higher cell phone bills because T-Mobile will stop undercutting prices and paying to buy out its customers' contracts. Still, because AT&T and Sprint do not have market power across multiple markets, the acquisitions of those companies pose a lesser threat to consumers.By contrast, a Comcast-TWC transaction unites companies that dominate across multiple markets. A more liberal, and perhaps more accurate, way to calculate Comcast-TWC's market share is to reverse-engineer it by subtracting its competitors' share from 100. Susan Crawford, citing Verizon, calculates that FiOS serves 14% of the country. Tim Wu calculated that Verizon FiOS has 8% market share (Google Fiber has 1%). (Crawford and Wu may both have calculated accurate figures. Crawford was calculating "coverage" or "service" area; Wu was calculating actual subscribers.)Comcast and Time-Warner's combined market share in the extremely important Internet service market could be 75% or more. Comcast's competitors may have less than 10%, depending on how you define "high-speed" broadband. It doesn't take a mathematician or an antitrust scholar to know that consumers are losing. In sum, a straightforward application of antitrust law says the merger is in a highly concentrated market posing an extraordinary danger to consumers.

Filed Under: broadband, monopoly, monopoly power

Companies: comcast, time warner
====================
Or not! You tell me, OK?

Remember how one of the top wingnut fears during Barack Obama's tenure as president -- after, of course his plan to take away your guns and/or to impose sharia law -- was that he might cancel all elections and declare himself dictator for life? True, sometimes, the gun-grabbing was a step on the way to such a scheme, so We The Stupid People couldn't fight back, so it all sort of blurred together, but the fear that Barack Obama would seize (MORE) power and cancel elections was always one of the biggies. Obviously, we should therefore not be at all surprised at this Washington Post headline:

Come on, WaPo, you have got to be joking us! But no, they did what looks like a pretty decent survey, with methodology and everything, though of course it's kind of primed to find respondents who would indeed be open to a little delay in the election process, as long as it's for the very best possible reason: making sure all those millions of illegal aliens who voted for Hillary don't endanger the Republic again. The Post started with the observation that even though there's no evidence that in-person voter fraud is widespread, huge percentages of Republicans are nonetheless certain it is. So hey, naturally enough, they wondered, "how far would Republicans be willing to follow the president to stop what they perceive as rampant fraud?"

Pretty goddamned far, it turns out. They surveyed 650 people who had already self-identified in another poll as Republican or leaning Republican, and asked them "whether Trump won the popular vote, whether millions of illegal immigrants voted, and how often voter fraud occurs." Then they got to the two big questions:

If Donald Trump were to say that the 2020 presidential election should be postponed until the country can make sure that only eligible American citizens can vote, would you support or oppose postponing the election?

What if both Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress were to say that the 2020 presidential election should be postponed until the country can make sure that only eligible American citizens can vote? Would you support or oppose postponing the election?

The survey found that about half of the Republicans surveyed thought Trump really did win the popular vote, and would be OK with postponing the 2020 election:

Nearly half of Republicans (47 percent) believe that Trump won the popular vote, which is similar to this finding. Larger fractions believe that millions of illegal immigrants voted (68 percent) and that voter fraud happens somewhat or very often (73 percent). Again, this is similar to previous polls.

And now the money shot. 52 percent said they'd support putting off the 2020 election on Donald Trump's say-so if it meant all those nonexistent illegals were weeded out. That increased to 56 percent support if the call for a postponed election came from both Trump and congressional Republicans. Sadly, they didn't factor in how high the percentage would go if Sean Hannity and "the hot chicks on Fox" joined the bandwagon too. Seems like a missed opportunity.

Not surprisingly, belief in any of the bullshit theories about voter fraud in 2016 correlated strongly with support for postponing the 2020 vote, and just to underline how much Trump loves the poorly-educated, support for democracy delayed

was also more prevalent among Republicans who were younger, were less educated, had less factual knowledge of politics and strongly identified with the party.

WaPo cautions that this is of course only a survey about a hypothetical, and that if Trump actually proposed such a thing, there would almost certainly be "a torrent of opposition, which would most likely include prominent Republicans," plus probably a financial panic as markets reacted to such an insane proposition. Also, while WaPo doesn't mention this, we'd bet those questions about 2016 and illegal voting no doubt primed some respondents to be more open to saying they'd delay an election for such a noble cause.

Now let's be clear about one thing, OK? This survey did not find that a majority of Republicans are open to giving Trump dictatorial powers. You gotta be fair and accurate about this shit. It merely found that a majority of Republicans are open to giving Trump dictatorial powers if he promises to stick it to the blacks and Messicans.

Yr Wonkette is supported by reader donations. Please click the "Donate" clicky, while it's still legal.

[WaPo]
====================
iOS 8 Select/Dropdown Issue

I have identified an issue on iOS 8 that causes the browser to crash and reload the page – not great if you are half way through filling in a form.

This issue can be replicated on some form select (dropdown) elements by changing the value and then clicking the next button as shown below:

Effect:

This only happens on dropdowns where you try to close the dropdown once a selection has been made.

This was a fix that was added to resolve an issue on iOS 6 where the drop down was not automatically dismissed when choosing a value.

Example JQuery Code:

$('select').on('change', function () { $(this).blur(); });

I worked out that triggering the blur event is the root cause of the issue. I believe this to be a problem where clicking the next button in Safari closes the dropdown box using the blur() event that we specify and then the browser itself tries to close the dropdown box – which no longer exists.

Removing the call to blur() resolves the issue.

This issue does not occur on Chrome on iOS 8, even though it is my understanding that Chrome is effectively Safari under the hood with a different UI over the top.

This bug has been reported to WebKit: https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=137059
====================
By JAMES NORD, Associated Press

PIERRE, S.D. (AP) — The state House failed Monday to override Gov. Dennis Daugaard's vetoes of a pair of bills that would have loosened restrictions on carrying concealed guns in conservative South Dakota.

The Legislature met for the final day of the 2017 legislative session and accepted five vetoes from Daugaard. The two highest-profile override attempts were on measures that would have allowed guns in the state Capitol and let people carry concealed handguns without a permit.

Neither gun bill received the two-thirds support required to overturn a gubernatorial veto. Daugaard said after the votes that he thinks that Capitol security offers good protections and that South Dakota's gun permitting laws aren't onerous.

The House vote of 36-33 failed to overcome Daugaard's rejection of the permitless concealed carry proposal.

It's currently a misdemeanor for someone to carry a concealed pistol or to have one concealed in a vehicle without a permit. Republican Rep. Dan Kaiser, a supporter, argued that getting a concealed pistol permit can be burdensome.

"Free people don't ask permission to do what's right," Kaiser said.

Republican Rep. Lynne DiSanto, who sponsored the bill, said that she intends to return next session with such a proposal. DiSanto said that it's a "fight that is not going away in South Dakota."

A vote of 42-27 on the Capitol carry bill also didn't meet the threshold needed to advance the measure.

It would have let people with an enhanced permit bring concealed handguns inside the building if they registered beforehand with security. There are no metal detectors or other security checks at the Capitol entrances to enforce the current prohibition on most people carrying guns in the building.

Republican Rep. Julie Frye-Mueller, a supporter, unsuccessfully argued that the veto should be overridden for safety. It can be scary at times seeing people up in the gallery who might be angry at lawmakers, she said.

"We are in a fishbowl down here," she said, referring to the House floor. "This would be like shooting fish in a barrel."

Lawmakers also upheld vetoes of bills on the state special education formula, reducing a fee mostly put into a telecommunication fund for the deaf and the juvenile justice system.

But, in an unorthodox move, the Legislature passed a similar juvenile justice bill changing the maximum duration of juvenile probation.
====================
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Scores of dead birds have been sent off for scientific analysis to determine the cause of death

US scientists believe fireworks may have caused thousands of birds to fall from the sky over an Arkansas town on New Year's Eve.

Karen Rowe, of the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission, said the red-winged blackbirds probably flew low to avoid explosions and collided with objects.

However, she stopped short of declaring the mystery solved, saying further tests on the dead birds are planned.

Officials say more than 3,000 birds fell over the city of Beebe.

The few that survived their fall stumbled around like drunken revellers, witnesses said.

Birds were "littering the streets, the yards, the driveways, everywhere," said Robby King, a county wildlife officer.

"It was hard to drive down the street in some places without running over them."

Initial laboratory reports said the birds had died from trauma, the AGFC said.

Residents reported hearing loud fireworks just before the birds started raining from the sky.

Image caption Severe weather over Arkansas could also be the cause of the mystery deaths

"They started going crazy, flying into one another," said AGFC spokesman Keith Stephens.

The birds also hit homes, cars, trees and other objects, and some could have flown hard into the ground.

"The blackbirds were flying at rooftop level instead of treetop level" to avoid explosions above, said Ms Rowe, an ornithologist.

"Blackbirds have poor eyesight, and they started colliding with things."

Beebe police chief Capt Eddie Cullum said they were inundated with calls from residents who saw the birds fall.

Poisoning has been ruled out after several cats and dogs that ate the dead birds suffered no ill effects, he added.

However, another theory is that a violent thunderstorm could have disoriented a roost of blackbirds.

Tornadoes swept through Arkansas and neighbouring states on 31 December, killing seven people.

City authorities have hired a specialist waste disposal firm to collect the dead birds from gardens and rooftops, and remove them.
====================
Shellac

It's hard not to love Shellac. More likely to play Reykjavik than Detroit, and more likely to release songs on flexi-discs in Dutch comic books than provide MP3s on their website, Shellac (or Shellac of North America) will always be known for doing it their way. Being able to operate completely outside the typical machinations of music -- independent or otherwise, their press sheets typically exclaimed "no free lunch," referring to promo copies -- the trio carved out a sizable niche in the sewage-infested gutters of underground rock & roll.



Started in an informal setting between infamous engineer and guitarist Steve Albini (ex-Just Ducky, Big Black, Rapeman) and drummer Todd Trainer (ex-Rifle Sport, Brick Layer Cake) in 1992, Shellac came into full formation after Albini invited bassist Bob Weston (ex-Sorry, Volcano Suns) to move to Chicago and employed him as an engineer at his studio. A clutch of singles soon appeared in 1993 and 1994 on Touch and Go and Drag City, somewhat following in the footsteps of Albini's Big Black, if only due to his trebly, cutting guitar work and deadpan vocals. As with Big Black, Shellac provided a forum for Albini to air his thoughts on the uglier side of humanity, though lowering the perversity and upping the humor a notch. (An early claim was that all Shellac songs concerned either baseball or Canada, sometimes both in the same song.) The odd rhythms of Trainer and rumbling bass of Weston clearly removed Shellac from any of the members' previous involvements. Laying the groundwork for Shellac's following output, their sound varied little since the initial recordings. Always featuring a raw sound, the band's recordings rarely (if ever) employed overdubs. Economy and precision are always at the top of the priority list.



They are definitely one of the best sounding bands in the world. And they still manage to be as weird as all get out. Sonically, their recordings are so loud and live sounding. The players are unbelievably tight and efficient. The drums are like a machine, way up in the mix, driving the songs, so precise and perfect, but somehow still impossibly groovy. The arrangements are simple, but manage to be intense and convoluted and confusing at the same time. Albini is the absolute master of the jagged angular riff.



Stripped down minimal math rock, no one does it better.
====================
Looking for news you can trust?

Subscribe to our free newsletters.





This news is particularly relevant heading into Copenhagen…for those who think conservation of any kind is impossible or unattainable or out of keeping with American goals.

The US Geological Survey released a study today showing that Americans used less water in 2005 than 35 years ago—despite a 30 percent population increase. Most of the decline is attributable to alternative cooling methods at power plants and to more efficient irrigation systems.

(The AAAS reminds us that some commercial farmers in the US have doubled the crops they grow with a given amount of irrigation water by using sub-surface drip irrigation.)

In 2005, 297 million Americans used 410 billion gallons of water per day. That’s 5 percent less than in 1980, the year of peak water use, when there were 227 million Americans. Or ~1,400 gallons of water per day per American in 2005, compared with ~2,000 gallons per person per day in 1980. Not bad. And a reminder that trends can be managed, not just suffered.

The quick stats on water use in the US today:

Nearly half of water cools thermoelectric power plants (more reason to conserve energy).

Irrigation appropriates 31 percent (more reason to eat consciously).

The public uses 11 percent.

The remaining 9 percent supplies industry, livestock, aquaculture, mining, and rural household use.

We need to remember however that a changing climate requires changes in water planning. In a blog posted last year, I cited a study in Science predicting water supplies will decrease substantially in parts of North America as the globe warms (as well as in parts of Europe, the Middle East, Africa).

Wonder about your own water footprint? Read Josh Harkinson’s fine MoJo piece.

Drip, drip, drip. It’s all finite. Let’s act accordingly.

CORRECTION: Now made in the water use per American per day. Thanks to readers.
====================
Update 3: PKO BP in Poland is also testing Apple Pay currently, we’ve learned. Sounds like a big expansion is in the works.

Update 2: The post has been further updated to report the names of three retail chains said to be launch partners in the region: Pressbyrån, 7-11 and Elgiganten.

Update: MacPro has updated its story to say that the service is launching in Finland and Denmark too, with ‘several key retail partners lined-up.’

A report by the Swedish site MacPro claims that Apple Pay will be launching in Sweden next week.

It says that Nordea will be the first Swedish bank to support the payment method, and that a joint announcement will be made on October 24 …

NordVPN

There’s no source or additional information provided in the brief report, but the site says that it has heard consistent reports of the launch.

The report comes a day after Apple SVP Eddy Cue promised that Apple Pay would be coming to India, though the company didn’t give any date.

Nordea is a large bank formed as a result of a series of mergers and acquisitions across Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway. It has more than 11 million customers across the Nordic and Baltic regions.

Sweden is one of the most advanced countries in terms of mobile payments. A Statista survey showed that more than three-quarters of the population used mobile payment apps last year.

Sweden has also been described as one of the most cash-free countries in the world. Only 20% of transactions involve cash, and more than half the bank branches in the country do not handle cash or accept cash payments into accounts.

Check out 9to5Mac on YouTube for more Apple news:
====================


The campaign behind a failed initiative to legalize marijuana in California announced Friday it had formed a new committee to put another measure on the ballot.

The Coalition for Cannabis Policy Reform 2012 aims to build on the unusual support that coalesced around Proposition 19, which would have allowed adults to grow and possess marijuana and authorized cities and counties to legalize and tax sales.

That campaign drew backing from the California NAACP and the Latino Voters League, which saw it as a way to end disproportionate arrests of African Americans and Latinos for marijuana crimes. Labor leaders in the Bay Area also got behind it, bringing endorsements from some major unions, which saw a legal pot industry as a potential source of union jobs.

The committee announced Friday included Alice Huffman, who heads the California NAACP; Antonio Gonzalez, who formed the Latino Voters League; and Dan Rush, the United Food and Commercial Workers Union official who worked during the campaign to build labor support. It also includes several key players behind Proposition 19, including Dale Sky Jones, who was the campaign's spokeswoman and will be the chairwoman of the new coalition.

"The purpose of our organization is to learn from our experiences in 2010 and take the lead toward victory in 2012," Jones wrote to supporters in an e-mail sent Friday. "We will expand our coalition, raise the necessary funds to move toward a possible 2012 campaign, and conduct polling and other opinion research that will guide the drafting of a new initiative."
====================
In an interview from Comic-Con, Marc Guggenheim tells us that long-lost Arrow character from Season 1, Raisa the Maid, returns in the sixth season.

We had announced it on our Twitter feed but didn’t really get a chance to write an article about it – the very, very big news to come from this weekend’s Comic-Con International in San Diego — Raisa the Maid, as played by Kathleen Gati, will be back in Arrow Season 6!

Executive Producer Marc Guggenheim did the confirming, telling us in a Joe Isuzu-like fashion that she’s the Big Bad of the year. (Not really.) She’s out on parole after her shoplifting conviction. (Also a joke.) But really, yes, Raisa is coming back, and the producers “couldn’t be more thrilled.”

“It just makes perfect sense given the story that we’re telling,” Guggenheim says, pointing out how Raisa has become a fan-favorite character. She’s totally going to help raise William after his mom Samantha… well, we can imagine what happens to his mother, right? (Boom.)

You can watch Marc Guggenheim’s interview from the Arrow Comic-Con press room below.
====================
The Van Allen radiation belts are the most dangerous regions in near-Earth space, home to electrons with energies as high as millions of electron volts, which can damage or destroy satellites. One of the most enduring mysteries of space physics is just how these “killer electrons” get accelerated to such high energies in the first place—energies more typically seen in the realms of exploding stars and black holes. Scientists have debated this ever since the belts were discovered by the first U.S. satellite, Explorer 1, in 1958.

One longstanding suspicion has been that plasma waves play a key role. The plasma surrounding Earth is like an ocean, awash with waves and vibrations propagating through it, and these could be accelerating particles to higher speeds and energies. However, waves don’t necessarily transfer momentum to the particles themselves; after all, in the ocean, waves usually pass right through, whereas the actual water molecules bob in circles.

To better understand how wave action could accelerate electrons to deathly speeds, Shklyar made detailed calculations of a slightly different scenario, one in which killer electrons receive their energy at the expense of other particles. In this scheme, waves act as the middleman, transferring energy from one group of particles to electrons, gradually pushing them faster and faster.

There’s one issue with this scenario: To make it work, there must be a way for the receiving electrons to continue to draw energy from particles slower than themselves. Thermodynamics generally frowns on this. When a faster particle collides with a slower particle, the faster one usually slows down and the slower one speeds up—not the other way around.

However, the author’s calculations show that this transfer is possible under certain conditions, namely, that the less energetic particles must have an unstable distribution. This allows some of their energy to go into waves, which can, in turn, push more stable electrons to higher and higher speeds.

Crucially, the author’s work also suggests a ubiquitous source for these processes: lightning bolts. Lightning is the prime source of a category of plasma waves called whistlers, named for their characteristic sharp fall in pitch, which makes them sound like whistles on radio receivers.

The author’s calculations show that lightning-induced whistler waves open a thermodynamic pathway: As charged particles spiral through the electric and magnetic fields, they can strengthen whistler waves, adding energy at each turn in a resonance. These whistler waves can then interact with higher-energy electrons through another mechanism called the Cerenkov resonance, pushing them to even greater energies—and killer status.

In this situation, the waves themselves are not the source of energy—they simply mediate the transaction from slower particles to faster ones. The work shows that this mechanism is a viable one and suggests that it plays an important role in creating the Van Allen belts. (Journal of Geophysical Research: Space Physics, https://doi.org/10.1002/2016JA023263, 2017)

—Mark Zastrow, Freelance Writer
====================
‘Transparency center’ offers visibility into who is behind ads as Senate investigates Russia’s used of social media to spread propaganda during election

Twitter has announced the launch of an advertising “transparency center” with stricter rules for political ads in the wake of revelations that social media sites were used to spread Russian propaganda during the 2016 US presidential election.

“In the coming weeks, we will launch an industry-leading transparency center that will offer everyone visibility into who is advertising on Twitter, details behind those ads, and tools to share your feedback with us,” said Twitter’s Bruce Falck in a blogpost.

The transparency center will allow people to find out how long ads have been running, what wording and images are being used throughout the campaign and information on how those ads are being targeted at users based on their demographic details.

For political ads that refer to a specific candidate (electioneering ads), users will be able to discover the identity of the organisation funding the campaign, the total campaign ad spend, the targeting demographics they have chosen and historical data. When electioneering ads appear on Twitter they will also be marked out as such with the messaging “promoted by political account”.

Tech giants face Congress as showdown over Russia election meddling looms Read more

The changes would not affect political issue-based ads that do not name a specific candidate, although Falck said Twitter was working on this. This means that the anti-refugee messaging that insisted France was operating under Sharia law used by Secure America Now to target swing states would not be subject to the same scrutiny.

“There is currently no clear industry definition for issue-based ads but we will work with our peer companies, other industry leaders, policymakers, and ad partners to clearly define them quickly and integrate them into the new approach mentioned above,” Falck said.



The changes come part-way through a Senate intelligence committee investigation into the Kremlin’s potential meddling in US politics in which Twitter is implicated.

Following revelations that Facebook had sold more than 3,000 election ads linked to a Russian agency, Twitter cross-referenced those advertisers with its own to discover similar political advertising on its own network. Twitter subsequently suspended 201 accounts, the company told the committee at the end of September.

Senator Mark Warner described Twitter’s internal investigation as revealed in a presentation to the committee as “frankly inadequate”.

The Democrat accused Twitter of failing to grasp “how serious this issue is, the threat it poses to democratic institutions and again begs many more questions than they offered”.

“There is a lot more work they have to do,” he told reporters on 28 September.

Last week Warner, along with senators Amy Klobuchar and John McCain, introduced legislation dubbed the Honesty Act requiring online platforms with at least 50 million monthly users to make a public record of advertisers who spend at least $500 on political ads regarding campaigns or significant legislative issues.

Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) A good first step, particularly public disclosure of ads info. Online political ads need more transparency & disclosure. We need #HonestAds https://t.co/ewDbd1hTxZ

Twitter appears to be pre-empting such legislation. Warner described Tuesday’s announcement as “a good first step”.

The changes will be made to the US before rolling out globally.
====================
Cryptographically bound peer-to-peer networks (henceforth called “crypto” for short) are going to be one of the defining technologies of our lifetimes. They enable fundamentally new forms of social organization.

These are bold claims. Once you “get” crypto, you’ll understand how crypto enables a new kind of social structure. I’ve tried to - and failed - to explain this concept to many people. Understanding the deepest and most profound implications of crypto can be difficult as crypto challenges many basic tenets of modern social structures and capitalism.

Background

Many of the best businesses in the world claim to be peer-to-peer (P2P) networks. These networks connect supply and demand in ways that was never possible before.

Obvious examples include eBay, Uber, AirBnB, the New York Stock Exchange and Facebook. But there many others: Apple connects developers to consumers, Amazon connects merchants with consumers, Google connects website owners to searchers, insurance companies and banks connect their customers through pooled capital.

Networks that connect latent supply and demand are the foundation of the economy. These networks have created tens of trillions of dollars of economic value. These networks grow to be very large because of network effects. Once a network achieves critical mass, it becomes nearly unstoppable.

But there’s a problem.

These networks aren’t really peer-to-peer, even though they claim to be. Rather, they are mediated by network operators, who levy a tax on network participants. Some of this tax is absolutely necessary. Someone has to pay for eBay’s servers, for AirBnb’s insurance offerings, for Amazon’s customer support, etc.

But one part of the tax isn’t necessary: profits (queue Uber jokes).

In time, all network operators become rent seekers. Most are from day one.

When crypto libertarians talk about “trustless” commerce, they’re talking about cutting out the middlemen and rent seekers: the network operators. They’re talking about connecting network participants to one another - both businesses and consumers - without middlemen extracting rents.

This can be hard to imagine. Without a network operator, whose going to build the app? Who's going to run the servers? How are consumers going to connect together? Who defines the rules of the transaction? How do you ensure equitable payment? Who manages refunds, reviews, and customer service?

The short answer: trustless, cryptographically bound network protocols.

Huh?

Let’s walk through four increasingly abstract examples to illustrate this.

Decentralized Cloud

A significant majority of the world’s computing resources (compute, storage, bandwidth) are unutilized at a given point in time. Consumer and business hard drives lay mostly empty, and CPUs hum along at 3% utilization. Despite this, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, IBM, etc. continue to build new data centers. This is bonkers.

Filecoin, STORJ, Sia, Swam, and SAFE are protocols that allow anyone to securely store files on other people’s hard drives. File owners can always retrieve files, and the people storing the files have no idea what they’re storing. At a high level, this is accomplished this in a remarkably simple way: using standard file encryption, Shamir sharding, and distributed hash tables for content-based addressing.

Each protocol creates a market in which people with unused storage space and bandwidth can compete to store other people’s files and generate income. Because these protocols leverage people’s excess storage capacity that would otherwise sit unutilized and generate $0 revenue, these protocols will offer storage that’s much less expensive than that offered by large data centers who buy storage with the intent to rent it out. I won’t dive into things like enterprise-grade support in this post, but it’s worth noting that these protocols are designed to allow organizations to compete on value-added layers such as support.

Each of these protocols is truly peer-to-peer. You store your content on other people’s hard drives. You don’t have to care about who stores them. No one stands between you and your files. There is no middle man, no rent-seeker. You store your files on the network and you pay the network.

Golem and Elastic do basically the same thing but for compute rather than storage.

For decentralized storage and compute, the mega opportunity is not “decentralized Dropbox.” Most people are on the free tier of Dropbox! The real opportunity for these protocols is in powering Internet applications. In time, most (maybe all?) apps – to do lists, note taking apps, chat apps, finance apps, etc. – won’t have to run in a private data center; rather, apps will run on the global mesh network of everyone’s computers.

Decentralized Prediction Markets

Augur is a decentralized prediction market. What does that mean? Let’s contrast it with a famous centralized prediction market: Las Vegas sports betting.

Vegas casinos take about 10% of total bet volume as a fee, called the take rate. They justify this fee by saying it’s necessary to arbitrate the outcome. You’re paying the casino 10% for three things: 1) to act as an escrow, 2) report who won the game, 3) and to distribute proceeds to the winner. This should not cost 10%. This is insanity.

The problem with a decentralized prediction market is that if no one is in a room somewhere flipping a switch to say who won the game, how do you resolve the bet? You can’t just leave it up to a vote of market participants. If the odds on a bet are 9:1 and the 1 ends up winning, you don’t want the 9s to just outvote the 1s.

What Vegas does for 10%, the Augur protocol will do for about 1%. Network participants in the Augur network, $REP holders, will be paid by the network to truthfully report event outcomes.

How?

The Augur network runs on smart contracts. In simple terms, smart contracts act as trustless escrow services that are bound by code (no human intervention) and release money based on some predetermined criteria. You will not stake bets in the Augur network using Augur’s native’s REP token. Rather, you’ll stake bets in other cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether. Services such as Oraclize will automatically relay the outcome of the basketball game from nba.com to the Augur smart contract. With the score of the game, the smart contract will resolve the bet and distribute the funds to the winner.

If anyone who was on the losing side of the bet believes that nba.com was incorrect (e.g. it was hacked) or that Oraclize manipulated the data, they can challenge the outcome by staking more money. At this point, the Augur smart contract asks REP holders to vote on the outcome of the basketball game. If REP holders vote in a way that overrules the challenger, the challenger loses the bond she put up to initiate the challenge. Additionally, REP holders who vote “incorrectly” - defined as those who vote against the majority of REP holders - also lose some REP. Thus, bet-losers are only incentivized to challenge the outcome reported by Oraclize if they believe a majority of REP holders will report a different outcome than that reported by Oraclize. The same is true of REP holders: they’re incentivized to vote in a way they believe all other REP holders will vote.

This system works because REP holders are independent of market participants and because REP holders are global and pseudo-anonymous, making large-scale collusion nearly impossible. Bet-losers and REP holders cannot easily identify and try to coerce REP holders to collude to report a false event outcome. Even if REP holders did collude and intentionally misreported an event outcome, people would lose faith in the Augur network and the value of REP tokens would plummet, harming the colluders.

All of this logic is handled by the Augur protocol, which lives on the Ethereum blockchain. No one in the world, including governments, can remove this smart contract or change the rules of the protocol. The protocol is like chemistry. You can’t break the laws of chemistry.

Must Read: An Intrepid Investor's Guide To Buying Bitcoin And Other Crypto Assets

Augur is a true P2P prediction market. Anyone can partake in any prediction market – politics, sports, asset prices, hurricane severity, economic forecasting, anything. No one can prevent you from participating in any market, and no one can manipulate the outcome. Liquidity pools are global, there’s no counterparty risk, and the fees are dramatically lower than centralized alternatives.

If you want to learn more about Augur, check out Multicoin's Augur Analysis and Valuation. TLDR: we’re bullish.

Decentralized Record Keeping

Every company that’s regulated for compliance (financial services, pharma, food safety, oil and gas, supply chains, etc.) has to keep records. Occasionally, auditors ask these companies for their records. When this happens, the company has to find the relevant records, turn them over to the auditor, and prove to the best of their ability that they haven’t modified the records since they were generated (this is how Bernie Madeoff ran a Ponzi scheme for 20+ years; he modified records after the fact).

Factom has designed a blockchain that allows companies to commit hashed records to a public blockchain. You can’t see the contents of the document by reading the blockchain. The public can only see a cryptographic hash – a fingerprint of the record – on the blockchain.

When committing records to the Factom blockchain, companies will still store their private documents on services like Box, Google Drive, or any of the decentralized storage protocols listed above. When auditors ask for documents, companies will turn documents over in the same way they always have. Auditors will then use software to compare each document against its cryptographic hash on the Factom blockchain. If they match, auditors will instantly know, with 100% certainty, whether the company has retroactively modified any document.

When companies adopt Factom, auditing becomes orders of magnitude faster, cheaper, more accurate, and honest.

As companies adopt Factom, the world will become a much more honest place. Pharmaceutical companies won’t be able to hide evidence of poor clinical trial results, the title-insurance business will collapse, supply chains will become transparent, and much more. By decentralizing record keeping, the truth will flourish.

If you want to learn more about Factom, check out Multicoin's Factom Analysis and Valuation. TLDR: we’re bullish.

Decentralized Money

“I think the fact that within the Bitcoin universe an algorithm replaces the functions of [the government] ... is actually pretty cool. I am a big fan of Bitcoin.”

- Al Gore, former Vice President of the United States.

Decentralized money is the holy grail of P2P networks. It’s money that’s free from government control: no inflation, no capital controls, no bank account freezes, no undisclosed fees, no multi-day clearing times. Your money. Purely your money. No one can tell you what you can do with it.

If you live in a country with a stable government, this may not seem like a big deal. What’s wrong with the USD? What’s wrong with Visa/Mastercard?

But if you live in one of these countries, you might have a different perspective.

The countries in green have inflation between 10-20%. The countries in blue are >20%. These countries combined represent 780M people – more than 10% of the global population – and $2.1 trillion of GDP.

If inflation is 20% and you have $10,000, then after one year it’s as if you have $8,000. After two years, it’s as if you have $6,400. Inflation is awful. It destroys value. It prevents people from thinking long term.

That is the promise of Bitcoin. Bitcoin operates independently of governments. It is a true peer-to-peer money system, controlled by the people, for the people. In crypto, no politician can devalue your money.

Challenging Capitalism

It’s not intuitive to think that centralization is a problem that permeates so many disparate facets of the modern world. Most people don’t think that modern Internet infrastructure is woefully inefficient and unnecessarily expensive. Or that prediction markets are materially worse as a result of centralization. Or that modern record keeping practices create opportunities for fraud and deceit. Or that centralized governments destroy the value of money.

But as a result of the entirely natural evolution of capitalism over the last few hundred years, middleman have come to wield enormous power. Middlemen levy taxes on most economic transactions. We as a society have become so used to this that we’re generally blind to it. Debates about tax reform are incredibly myopic relative to the global scope of network operators levying taxes on network participants.

Cryptographically bound networks will become more profound that anyone recognizes today. Consider the number and types of rent seekers. They’re everywhere:

Governments

Insurance companies

Banks

Social networks

Internet service providers

Marketplace operators

Exchange operators

Casinos

Crypto is going to change money not only by challenging monetary policy of governments, but also by challenging the structure of society as we know it. Every industry listed above, and many others, will be radically transformed by cutting out middlemen and connecting individuals and businesses to one another via crypto. Not all corporations will transform into blissful P2P crypto cooperatives. Earth will not become some hippie utopia in which all rules and money are governed by cryptographically bound protocols.

Pooling capital and human labor will always exist. Not everything will become P2P. A P2P car factory doesn’t make sense. A lot of industrial processes won’t be directly impacted by P2P networks. Local service providers - dentists, barbers, etc - aren’t going anywhere. Crypto networks aren’t going to give you a massage, mow your lawn, or clean your house.

Finding Truth In Fiction

In Sapiens, Yuval Hurari argues that the defining characteristic of homosapiens vs all other species on Earth is homosapien’s ability to tell and believe in abstract and shared stories. He calls these shared stories “fictions” to make the point clear. All of the foundations of modern society are shared fictions: money, law, religion, and corporations, to name a few.

People are bound by chemistry and physics. Corporations are not. They are purely abstract, and exist only within the confines of laws, which are themselves fictions. Green pieces of paper connote value only because the federal government tells us that green pieces of paper connote value.

Corporations have produced nearly all of the incremental value for society in the last few hundred years. These corporations – these shared fictions – were absolutely necessary for the development of modern society. The Walmart corporation has created tremendous value for society by creating a shared fiction called Walmart that coordinates the actions of 1,000,000 employees who would be otherwise autonomous and independent. Each of these people understands their role within the broader Walmart fiction from the front-door greeter to the CEO.

We finally have a way to coordinate large numbers of disparate parties trustlessly across the globe in real time through the use of economic incentives. This can be done without a shared fiction. This is possible for for the first time because of crypto.

Cryptographically bound P2P networks provide a new mechanism for social organization. These networks are bound purely by protocols, which are themselves bound by math. Network participants can engage in protocol governance, as defined by the protocol. Through these protocols, billions of people will transact with one another For the first time in human history, they’ll do so without believing in any shared fiction other than the shared fiction of money itself.

Everything that can be decentralized, will be decentralized. - Johnston’s Law.

Must Read: An Intrepid Investor's Guide To Buying Bitcoin And Other Crypto Assets
====================


Yellow police tape is strung in front of the Inland Regional Center, site of the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. in 2015. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)

After President Trump made the baffling claim in a speech on Monday that the media was not reporting on terror attacks (“It’s gotten to a point where it’s not even being reported. And in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn’t want to report it. They have their reasons, and you understand that.”), press secretary Sean Spicer hurried to do damage control.

It wasn’t that the attacks weren’t being reported at all, Spicer told reporters on Air Force One. It was that the attacks weren’t being reported enough. “Protests will get blown out of the water, and yet an attack or a foiled attack doesn’t necessarily get the same coverage,” he said. He promised to release a list of those so-called under reported attacks shortly.

White House press secretary Sean Spicer said on Feb. 6 that terror attacks in the U.S. were "under reported" by the news media. Spicer didn't elaborate on what those terror attacks were. (The Washington Post)

A few hours later, he did. The White House produced a list of 78 attacks that it felt met the criterion of receiving less attention than deserved, unlike, say, anti-Trump protests involving millions of people.

We decided to take a quick look at the list and see how many hadn’t been reported in the American media. Below are the first 25 attacks on the list, with links to coverage.

This is a somewhat arbitrary point at which to stop, but there’s a reason for it.

There’s a concept in interactions with the press called “working the refs.” The idea is that it’s worth paying attention to trying to shape the coverage you receive before you receive it by offering criticisms that hopefully push the media where you want. Trump’s point about the media not reporting on terror attacks wasn’t necessarily that he thought the media was burying stories — though it very well may have been. Spicer, at least, was smart enough to understand that this was an opportunity to get the media to run with a lengthy list of terror attacks that, he hoped, would reinforce Trump’s broader message that terror attacks were a constant threat that demanded a strong response. Spicer, in other words, hoped to work the refs.

The problem with this effort is that it’s both transparent and irrational. Should the media write dozens of stories about terror attacks in Egypt in which a couple of people were wounded? Notice that in the first 25 attacks listed above, only three were in America. In none of those three was anyone killed.

And notice that the attack in Garland, Tex., is included in that list. That story, an attack on an event showing cartoons of Muhammad, received tons of media attention. So did the attack in Souse, Tunisia: This was the attack on a beach resort that left nearly 40 people dead. You likely remember that story — because it received a lot of media attention.

Missing are attacks that don’t involve a Muslim or Islamic State-sympathetic attacker. But the list does includes stories that no person in his or her right mind could consider undercovered. The bombing in New York City. The attacks in Paris on cafes and the Bataclan theater. The shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. (misspelled on the White House list). The bombing at the airport in Brussels. The shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando. These stories received wall-to-wall coverage, and deservedly so.

They also give the lie to the intent of Spicer offering the list. The point wasn’t to complain that there was not enough coverage of the shooting in San Bernardino. It was to turn Trump’s baffling remarks into an opportunity to make a broader point in service to Trump’s policies.

The list was rushed — “attacker” is misspelled repeatedly and there is incorrect information, such as the statement that multiple people were involved in the recent attack at Ohio State University. This wasn’t something that the White House was sitting on, waiting to raise as a legitimate critique of how the media approached an issue central to Trump’s presidency. It was, instead, an attempt to make lemonade.

You may be the refs of whether or not it worked.
====================
At the release team BoF at this years Guadec, I said I would write a blog post about the whats and hows and ifs of release team work. I’m a little late with this, but here it is: a glimpse into the life of a GNOME release team member.

We are in the end phase of the development cycle, when the release team work is really kicking into high gear.

Blocker bugs

Since the .90 release, we’ve been tracking blocker bugs. The way this works is that we are setting the GNOME Target field to the next release. During the cause of the development cycle, we’ve had 50 bugs that were marked with

GNOME Target=3.14

at some point . Today, we’re down to a single one, which will hopefully be gone before the weekend is over.

In order to draw our developers attention to these bugs, we’re sending out regular reports to desktop-devel-list (see them here, here and here). Andre has taken over this task this cycle.

We don’t have formal criteria for what bugs to mark as blockers, we are mostly going by the instinct and experience of bug zapping veterans like Andre Klapper. My own criteria for setting this flag mostly come down to these questions:

Is it a crash in a core component ? Is it very visible or annoying ? Will it affect many users ?

For finding bugs that should be blockers, I am regularly scanning all incoming bugs in bugzilla. On an average day this query finds between 100 and 200 bugs – with some practice, one can get through that list in 15 minutes.

We also get ‘nominations’ for blockers from maintainers and developers, which is very helpful.

Development Releases

The duty of ‘doing’ releases is distributed among all of the current, active release team members.

Our development schedule has a pretty well-established cadence of development releases: We do a number of early development snapshots which are roughly a month apart (3.13.1, 3.13.2, 3.13.3 and 3.13.4 this cycle), followed by the beta releases which are 2 weeks apart (3.13.90, 3.13.91, 3.13.92, this cycle).

The end product of each development release is a set of jhbuild modulesets and a forest of symlinks to the tarballs for individual modules that are included in the release.

Most of the mechanics of creating the modulesets by rewriting our regular modulesets (which point at git repositories, not tarballs), and creating those symlinks on the server are handled by scripts that have been passed down through the generations.

The time-consuming aspect of creating a release is that it usually takes several attempts to create candidate modulesets, hunt down missing releases (or doing them ourselves – which is sadly necessary for a number of ‘weakly maintained’ modules), and do a full jhbuild using the final modulesets. As a consequence, while our official release day is always Monday, the release typically happens on Wednesday or Thursday of the same week.

Planning

Towards the end of a development cycle, the release team also starts to plan for the next cycle.

This includes creating the schedule, taking a look at annoying bugs that we should tackle in the next cycle, figuring out if there are project-wide goals that we should push, and collecting input on new modules and features that people want to work on for the next release.

Since we are at this point right now, let me end with this request:

Please let us know what features are on your modules roadmap for the next cycle!
====================
I have spent over 30 years fighting Creationists, especially the out-and-out literalists who believe that the earth and its inhabitants were made miraculously in six days, some six thousand years ago. More recently, I have been combating the so-called Intelligent Design Theorists who argue that the organic world is so complex one must assume a designing intelligence intervened miraculously. I believe that Darwinian evolution is the right explanation of organic origins and that these so-called alternatives are relicts of an idiosyncratic form of American, Protestant, evangelical Christianity from the 19th century.

I am of course one of many involved in this fight. The late Stephen Jay Gould, paleontologist and brilliant popular science writer, was a major figure. So also is this year’s Templeton Prize Winner, the geneticist Francisco Ayala. Special credit must also go to the National Center for Science Education, an organization that exists to fight attempts to get biblical literalism into the nation’s biology classes. No praise can be too high for its director, Eugenie Scott, who devotes her life to the cause.

One thing that we Creationism fighters came early to realize is that the proper approach has to be grounded on the belief that science and religion are things of different natures—what Gould used to call different Magisteria. Apart from anything else, given the way that the First Amendment has come to be interpreted—separation of church and state—it is only by taking this approach that one can mount a legal case, one that was mounted with success against Creation Science in Arkansas in 1981 and with equal success against Intelligent Design Theory in Dover, Pennsylvania in 2005. The Constitution does not bar the teaching of bad science. It does bar the teaching of religion. The trick therefore is to show that evolution is science and Creationism and its varieties are religion.

There is also a very good social reason for keeping science and religion separate. Americans are religious. If you argue that science simply smashes everything that is central to religion, you are not going to make many friends. Why should people allow their kids to take biology classes if the message is going to be that it is just a pile of hooey to entertain any thoughts and hopes that the death of Jesus on the Cross and his resurrection on the third day makes possible our eternal salvation? This is why the New Atheists are not very helpful when it comes to the fight against Creationism. In their books, like The God Delusion, and on the blogs, like Why Evolution is True and Pharyngula, they preach nonstop the message that science wipes out religion and a good thing too. This may go down well with their audience but is anathema to the average American. It is little wonder that the New Atheists provide the Creationists with their favorite reading.

Obviously, because something is legally and socially desirable, that does not make it true. And equally obviously the case cannot be made that science and religion never come into conflict. You cannot hold to Noah’s Flood and modern geology at the same time. You cannot with the Mormons think that the native people of America are the lost tribes of Israel and accept modern anthropological beliefs that these people came over the Bering Strait. At most, what you have got to show (staying with Western Christianity because this is where the real conflict arises) is that traditional Christianity—the Christianity of Augustine and Aquinas, of Luther and Calvin—does not conflict with modern science. (This is not to say that these thinkers would never have accepted things that today science rules unacceptable, but that they gave a methodology to accept new findings.)

Can this be done? In past pieces in this series of Brainstorm posts, I have tried to prepare the way. The important thing about science, as stressed by Thomas Kuhn, is that it is deeply metaphorical. It succeeds because of its metaphors—force, attraction, natural selection, genetic code, arms race, Oedipus complex. The important thing about modern science is that it is dominated by the metaphor of the machine—the world works or functions like a machine, endless motions obeying fixed natural laws. This holds in the physical world, it holds in the biological world—Richard Dawkins speaks of us as “survival machines”—and thanks to the metaphor of the brain as a computer, it holds in the psychological world also. And finally, the important thing about metaphors is that they put on blinkers. They help to find the right questions to ask—What is the meaning of the order of these different smaller molecules along the backbone of the macro DNA molecule?—and they also rule out other questions as irrelevant or meaningless—Is the DNA molecule Protestant or Catholic?

Cut to the chase. There are a number of questions that are simply ruled out by the machine metaphor as applied to our world. First, why is there something rather than nothing? Machines take the ingredients for granted. It is rather like Mrs. Glasse’s recipe for jugged hare. Take your hare. Note that this does not mean that the question (often, for obvious reasons, known as the “fundamental question”) is meaningless, although as it happens Wittgenstein thought it was. It is just that it is not a question addressed by modern science. You can of course as a scientist ask about origins, that is what evolutionists do all of the time. But ultimately, the world is a given.

Morality is another question not addressed by modern science. David Hume pointed this out. You cannot legitimately go from matters of fact to matters of obligation. Of course the way the world is and what you know about the world can affect your moral decisions. Should I cut this person open and jiggle about with their heart? Well, only if you have the medical knowledge to do so. But that is it. Machines just are. It is what we decide to do with them that brings in the right and wrong.

More contentiously, with Leibniz and many modern thinkers like John Searle, I don’t think that machines think. Or let me be more precise. Perhaps machines do think. Remember Hal in 2001. I don’t think machines explain the phenomenon of consciousness, sentience. I am not sure whether this drives you back to some kind of Cartesian dualism, as suggested by David Chalmers, or whether perhaps the problem of sentience is simply something we will never explain, as suggested by Colin McGinn. What I do know is that when people like Daniel Dennett say that they have a solution as soon as they have described the working of the brain, they are whistling in the wind. Electrical circuits firing off are not the same as appreciating a Mozart opera.

Finally, there is the question of ultimate purpose. The Nobel physicist Steven Weinberg says that the more he studies the world the less purpose he sees in it. I am not surprised. He is not engaged in an inquiry that will yield purpose. This may seem a bit strange because surely machines do have purposes. The automobile is for transport, the stove is for cooking. However, as scholars of the Scientific Revolution have long pointed out, no sooner had people like Galileo and Descartes adopted machine thinking than they realized that all they were really interested in were the mechanisms. Of course, God may well have created everything for a purpose, but as far as science is concerned God rapidly became a retired engineer. So here is another area that modern science simply does not speak to: What is the purpose of it all?

There may be other questions to which modern science does not speak and can give no good answers. Several of my colleagues down here in the Philosophy Department of Florida State think that free will is something ultimately beyond the scope of science. But four are enough for present purposes. Science says nothing. It is silent. The question now obviously is whether religion can pick up and run with this result. I will turn to this in my final piece in this series.
====================
Last season's MVP race raged on into the final weeks of the regular season with both Golden State's Stephen Curry and Houston's James Harden dazzling all the way to the finish.

In the end Curry won his first KIA MVP and Harden waited until summer to collect his hardware from his peers at the National Basketball Players Association.

But we don't have a compelling race a quarter of the way through this season, not with Curry and the Warriors riding the wave of their record 23-0 start (they'll go for 24-0 tonight in Boston, 7:30 ET on League Pass).

Sure, Paul George is having a staggering comeback season for the Indiana Pacers. Kawhi Leonard has assumed the leading man role for the San Antonio Spurs. LeBron James is doing what he always does, grinding his team to the top of the Eastern Conference standings. And Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant are just getting comfortable in a new system in Oklahoma City.

... He's so far out in front the pack ... good luck trying to catch him. – An Eastern Conference executive on Stephen Curry's MVP run

And yet none of them can match the pace Curry has set thus far. The NBA's scoring leader (32.2 points per game on a wicked .529 shooting from the floor and .465 from beyond the 3-point line) is in the midst of what has the makings of one of the greatest seasons in league history.

"If he shut it down for the rest of the regular season after that Christmas game against the Cavaliers I don't know if anybody could catch him," joked an Eastern Conference executive when asked if Curry had rendered the MVP race moot shortly after Thanksgiving. "I'm joking, but really he's so far out in front the pack ... good luck trying to catch him."

Harden has crawled back into the mix on this week's KIA Race to the MVP Ladder, but is far from making things interesting the way he did in last year's race.

MVP (Not Named Steph Curry) We all love Steph, but there have been some great performances which are being overlooked this season.

Even more intriguing is what Curry will cook up next during the Warriors' historic and revolutionary run. He's been on his own planet all season, proving that you can actually get better at being, well, the best. And while we all struggle to make sense of how this could be, Curry's got it figured out.

"Individually, everybody has taken their games up a notch," he told ESPN The Magazine for their Ideas of the Year issue. "As a team, it's chemistry. We're in our second year in Coach Kerr's system, which he always said is when you get your bearings, not just the playcalls but the principles, the fundamentals of how to get our shots, how to play up-tempo, how to defend. It's innate now."

As for whether or not he's the best in the game right now, he's got that figured out as well.

"When I'm on the floor, I believe I am, for sure," he said. "I don't get into why I'm better than such and such. But that's my motivation when I work."

Curry doesn't have to entertain that conversation, at least not at this point in the season.

There is no intrigue, no uncertainty for anyone paying attention.

His "work" speaks for itself.

The Top 10 in this week's KIA Race to the MVP Ladder:

1. Stephen Curry, Golden State Warriors

Last week's ranking: No. 1

Curry's 29 Points Highlights from Stephen Curry as he scores 29 points in the Warriors win over the Pacers.

The Celtics believe they have a trap set for Curry and the Warriors tonight in Boston. The Pacers tried to beat Curry and the Warriors at their own game Tuesday night and got popped. Klay Thompson went off for 39 points, stealing a bit of the spotlight from Curry, who finished with a near triple-double with 29 points, 10 assists and 7 rebounds. A quick reminder of just how ridiculous Curry has been on the Warriors' first five games of their road trip: he's averaging 33.4 points on 58 percent shooting from the floor and a staggering 55 percent from beyond the 3-point line.

2. Paul George, Indiana Pacers

Last week's ranking: No. 3

Paul George's 33 Points Highlights from Paul George as he scores 33 points in the Pacers loss to the Warriors.

Three straight losses by the Pacers have stained George's work since our last update. He dropped a career-high 48 points on 15-for-27 shooting from the floor (8-for-11 from deep), 8 rebounds, 3 assists and 3 steals in a loss in Utah. He followed that up with 33 points, 8 rebounds, 6 assists and 3 steals in a loss to the Warriors and is averaging 33.6 points in his last seven games. Next up is tonight's showdown at Bankers Life Fieldhouse against old foe Miami (7 ET, ESPN), who will have to figure out a way to stop a more mature and more polished Paul George than the budding young star they had to deal with in the playoffs a few years ago.

3. LeBron James, Cleveland Cavaliers

Last week's ranking: No. 4

LeBron's Big Night LeBron James scores 33 points and 10 rebounds as the Cavaliers beat the Blazers 105-100.

Help is on the way for LeBron in the form of Kyrie Irving and Iman Shumpert, who could make their respective season debuts during the Cavaliers' two-game road swing through Orlando (tonight) and Boston (next Tuesday). If that means a slight reduction in LeBron's minutes (he's averaging 41 in 3 games so far this month), that's probably a good thing. Then again, the extra minutes have meant supersized production (31.3 points, 10 rebounds, 5 assists, 1.7 blocks and 1.3 steals). So much for that "maintenance plan" they've been working on in Cleveland.

4. Russell Westbrook, Oklahoma City Thunder

Last week's ranking: No. 5

Westbrook's 20 Points, 10 Assists Russell Westbrook scores 23 points and dishes out ten assists to help the Thunder top the Hawks.

Westbrook was at his diabolical best in the Thunder's revenge win over Atlanta Thursday night, finishing with 23 points, 10 assists, 6 rebounds and 3 steals. The Thunder couldn't finish against the Hawks last week in Atlanta but got huge efforts from their two biggest stars this time around. Westbrook located his touch from deep during the game, too, knocking down three of his four shots from beyond the 3-point line after shooting just 3-for-13 from that distance in the previous four games. The Thunder don't rely on his 3-point shooting but every little bit helps.

5. Kawhi Leonard, San Antonio Spurs

Last week's ranking: No. 2

Leonard On Fire From Deep Watch Kawhi Leonard hits seven 3-pointers in a victory over Memphis.

A bad sandwich kept Leonard out of uniform against Philadelphia Monday and he didn't look like himself in his return game, scoring 9 points in Wednesday's loss to the Toronto Raptors. He will, however, have a great opportunity for a much-needed bounce back effort tonight when the Spurs host the Los Angeles Lakers in the south Texas stop of the Kobe Bryant Farewell Tour. In four games this month, Leonard's scoring numbers have dipped (16.0 on 42.6 shooting compared to 21.8 on 51.8 percent shooting last month), so don't expect him to get sentimental with Kobe in town.

6. Kevin Durant, Oklahoma City Thunder

Last week's ranking: No. 7

Nightly Notable: Kevin Durant Kevin Durant has 25 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists to lead Oklahoma City over Atlanta.

Durant recorded his seventh career triple-double (25 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists) in the Thunder's win over the Hawks Thursday. Billy Donovan's favorite part had to be Durant and Russell Westbrook combining for six assists before either one of the All-Stars, two of the top six scorers in the league, made a basket. Durant could easily average 30 a night if he felt the need to chase numbers, but he's showing off his entire arsenal (9.4 rebounds, 6.4 assists and 1.4 steals in his last five games) and playing with the framework of Donovan's system.

7. Kyle Lowry, Toronto Raptors

Last week's ranking: No. 8

Arena Link: Kyle Lowry Kyle Lowry joins GameTime via arena link after a 19-point performance in a victory over San Antonio.

Lowry had a career night (41 points and six 3-pointers) and did everything in his power to outduel Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors. He followed that up with 27 points, 7 rebounds and 6 assists in a Monday win over the Lakers and finished with 19 points, 8 assists and 5 rebounds as he and DeMar DeRozan led the way in Wednesday's defeat of the San Antonio Spurs. Lowry's breakout campaign a year ago has given way to an encore performance that suggest his best is yet to come, which is remarkable for a player 10 years into his career.

8. Jimmy Butler, Chicago Bulls

Last week's ranking: No. 6

Butler's Career-High 36 Points Jimmy Butler scores a career-high 36 points on 12-24 shooting and grabs seven rebounds in a loss to Boston.

Butler continues to grind away on and off the floor. And whatever identity issues the Bulls are working out, Butler is having no trouble doing his thing, even when his shot fails him the way it did in Thursday's win over the Los Angeles Clippers (when he shot just 4-for-14 from the floor and finished with 14 points, 8 assists, 5 rebounds, 2 blocks and 2 steals). Butler's forcing the action the way at No. 1 option is supposed to and he's seeing the results of that aggressiveness on offense at the free throw line, averaging a career-best 9.2 attempts and making 84.8 percent from the line.

9. Blake Griffin, Los Angeles Clippers

Last week's ranking: No. 9

Muscle It In Blake Griffin battles with Taj Gibson for position and hits the hook shot.

Griffin saw his night end early against the Bulls Thursday night after his swipe at a Taj Gibson shot ended up being a clothesline of Gibson, resulting in a Flagrant 2 and automatic ejection. Griffin and the Clippers remain an easy target this season given the expectations and their struggles, but they are very much in the mix in the Western Conference. Griffin's not scoring the way he did in the first few weeks of the season, and it probably wasn't realistic to think he would keep that up. His overall production, though (he's working on a streak of four straight double-doubles), keeps him among the league's elite.

10. James Harden, Houston Rockets

Last week's ranking: Not ranked

Nightly Notable: James Harden James Hardes scores 42 points on 13-23 shooting, grabs nine boards with seven assists to lead Houston over Washington.

As disastrous as things have been early on this season in Houston, James Harden's ability to will these Rockets to victory on any given night is still there. After an awful 10-point, 9-assist, 7-turnover performance in a Tuesday loss in Brooklyn the next night he turned in a 42-point, 9-rebound, 7-assist, 2-block, 2-steal effort in to lead the Rockets to a win in Washington. If the playoffs began today, Harden and the bipolar Rockets would make the cut, just barely. They've won four of five heading into Saturday night's home game against the Lakers. Harden, second to Stephen Curry in scoring, has averaged 26.4 points, 8 assists, 6.4 rebounds, 1.4 steals and 1.2 blocks during that stretch.

Others Receiving Consideration: Dirk Nowitzki, Dallas Mavericks; Chris Bosh, Miami Heat; Andre Drummond, Detroit Pistons; Damian Lillard, Portland; DeMarcus Cousins, Sacramento Kings

Sekou Smith is a staff writer for NBA.com. You can e-mail him here and follow him on Twitter.

The views on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of the NBA, its clubs or Turner Broadcasting.
====================
Defense Ministry Crossing Authority agents on Sunday uncovered a shipment of military-style boots bound for the Gaza Strip that had been hidden inside colorful, cartoon-adorned slippers.

The ministry said in a statement that the army boots were believed to be bound for the Hamas terrorist group, which has controlled the Gaza Strip for over a decade.

Thousands of olive green, black and camouflage army boots, made by the specialty Magnum Boots and Apparel company, were sewn inside bedroom slippers decorated with various “emojis,” simple cartoons that are often used in social media and smartphone messages.

Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories Free Sign Up

They were discovered while the shipment was being inspected at the Kerem Shalom crossing into the southern Gaza Strip.

“The smugglers invested effort and thought in the attempt to outwit the crossing check, when they tried to sew slippers over the boots. I’m proud of the security checkers, who operated exactly as is expected of them, beginning with identifying the truck as suspect and ending with checking the shipment and uncovering the smuggling attempt,” said Ami Shaked, the head of the Kerem Shalom Crossing Authority.

The Defense Ministry said it believed the boots were going to be used by Hamas’s military wing.

Col. Fares Attila, the head of the ministry’s Coordination and Liaison Department, which oversees movement to and from the Gaza Strip, decried the smuggling attempt as an attempt by “the Hamas terrorist group to take advantage of the Israeli policies toward the residents of the Strip.

“We will continue to stand guard in order to ensure that shipments reach their destination and aren’t diverted for terror purposes,” he said

The truck that was transporting the shipment and all the rest of its goods was impounded by Israel for further investigation by the joint task force responsible for combating attempts to smuggle goods into the Gaza Strip.

The taskforce is made up of representatives from the Defense Ministry’s Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories (COGAT), Shin Bet security service, Israel Police, the Tax Authority and the Crossing Authority.
====================
In 2010, when the UK Independence Party, under the increasingly high-profile stewardship of Nigel Farage, began to make some headway in the polls, commentators wondered whether they might turn out to be the British equivalent of the US Tea Party. After the recent local elections in 2013, when UKIP won an unprecedented 25% of the vote, this point was made again, with particular links drawn between the two parties’ right-wing, populist, anti-government stance.

These types of comparisons are popular, as they can be used to frame novel events or issues, but have also been criticised for being too simplistic. In this case, it’s important to acknowledge both the key differences between the UK and US political systems, as well as the extent to which the Tea Party’s Christian conservatism, and powerful corporate backers, mark it out as a very particular political animal. Likewise, in trying to draw comparisons, it’s important to ensure that the most precise labels are used. Given that UKIP has a negligible presence in Scotland and Wales, and attracts almost all its support from English voters, the case to be made is that it is England, not Britain’s, version of the Tea Party.

Notwithstanding these important caveats, recent research on both sides of the Atlantic points to some interesting similarities between the two parties, both, in terms of their supporters’ attitudes and experiences and the impact they may be having on the wider political system, as a whole. Of particular interest, here, are anxieties around generational change and the extent to which debates about entitlement are often tied to questions of (national) belonging.

In trying to compare the parties, the first feature of note is the type of supporters they attract; the vast majority are middle-aged or older and white, while men are more likely to be supporters than women. In the case of the Tea Party, ‘nationwide surveys produce a consistent picture of Tea Party supporters… Between 55 and 60 percent of supporters are men; 80–90 percent are white; and 70–75 percent are over 45 years old’ (Williamson, Skocpol & Coggin, 2011: 27). According to YouGov data, 85% of UKIP supporters are over 40 years old and 57% are men. Surprisingly, there is no official data on ethnicity, but it’s generally agreed that most of their supporters are white.

Where supporters of the respective parties differ most is in terms of class. A report, based on research funded by the Toy peer, Lord Ashcroft, notes that, ‘UKIP voters are …more likely to be male and older, but more likely than average to be in social groups C2 and DE (and less in ABC1)’. Tea Party supporters, on the other hands, tend to be ‘better off economically and better educated than most Americans’ (Skocpol and Williamson, 2012: 23). What this actually means in practice is that while Tea Party supporters tend to be former Republican voters, UKIP draws it support from a wider ranger of voters, although, unsurprisingly, ex-Tories still dominate. As we will see, this feature may actually have a more profound impact on the British political landscape, given that both Labour and the Conservatives are required to address the rise of UKIP.

Elsewhere, a key feature of both parties rise to prominence has been the role of particular media sources that are not only seen to define key issues, and potential solutions, but also to foster a ‘social protest identity’ among disparate groups. For instance, political correctness, the idea that ‘silent majority’ are unable to say what they think for fear of offending minorities, has been one way that populist groups have managed to justify their activities and portray themselves as ‘outcasts’ and subject to the tyranny of ‘liberal’ elites. In the US, it has been radio shock jocks and Fox News that have filled this role, while in the UK, it is two newspapers, The Sun and Daily Mail, that offer their readers (including 70% of UKIP supporters) a steady diet of anti-immigration and EU rhetoric.

In terms of policy-making, much has been made of both parties combination of social conservatism and economic liberalism and the extent to which their policies primarily focus on cutting back state spending (with the exception of defence) and reducing the role of government, notably when it comes to environmental and equal opportunities legislation. Of course, there are differences both between, and within, the parties when it comes to the radicalism of their proposals, notably when it comes to welfare. Notable here is the degree to which supporters of both parties choose quite carefully the types of social spending they want to be cut. In the case of UKIP, the NHS, which still has broad-based and popular support among the British electorate, is often excluded from cost-cutting pledges. Likewise, in the US, Tea Party supporters make a distinction between welfare that benefits people like them (for instance, Medicaid and Social Security) and programmes that are seen to support less desirable groups.

But what is really striking about supporters of both UKIP and the Tea Party is the fact that when they get to talk in depth about what concerns and motivates them, economic issues come a distant second to anxieties around generational change and, in particular, ethnic diversity. The following extract from Lord Ashcroft’s study sums up a number of the main concerns of the UKIP supporters and sympathisers his researchers interviewed;

"These voters think Britain is changing for the worse. They are pessimistic, even fearful, and they want someone and something to blame… Voters are driven towards UKIP by a deeper unease with the way life has changed in modern Britain. These complaints were very often related to immigration, the changing character of their local area, advantages that immigrants seemed to be given over themselves, and excessive sensitivity to people from other cultures and religions"

This is a point also made by many of the people interviewed in Skocpol and Williamson’s study of the Tea Party, with the following being typical comments; ‘I want my country back’, ‘We need to take our country back’, ‘I feel like my country is being stolen by people who have come here illegally’ (2012: 10/72). Arguing that they no longer recognized the country they grew up in, their narratives were again marked by anxiety, confusion and fear and, generally, pointed to the impact of immigration and the increasing diversity of the American population.

What is notable about these statements is that they tell us something very important about the ways in which these groups see the world. First, they view themselves, and people like them, as being at the heart of the nation’s social and cultural life; they are the people who belong without question. Second, while they can be accepting of minority groups in general, when these groups are perceived to have the power to do what they want (secure housing and benefits, build mosques, open shops, have signs and leaflets printed in ‘their’ languages), then this elicits a really passionate, and generally quite fearful, response. Third, in this worldview entitlements to key social and economic resources are defined in relation to hierarchies of belonging. Put bluntly, the people who (are seen to) belong more are entitled to more. Therefore, even debates around economic issues (jobs, housing, welfare) are often informed by wider understandings of culture and belonging. Or as Skocpol and Williamson note; ‘deservingness is a cultural category, closely tied to certain racially and ethnically tinged assumptions about American [and British] society in the early twenty-first century’ (2012: 74)

Given the increasing diversity of younger cohorts on both sides of the Atlantic, what we have is a potential for generational conflict that is sometimes overlooked in the wider debates around pensions, housing bubbles and university fees. In other words, while Britain/England and the US are, by and large, becoming both more diverse and more tolerant, as a whole, there is a powerful cohort that is fired by generational fears about the way ‘their’ country is headed and, in particular, the threat that perceived ‘others’, often defined in terms of ethnicity, are seen to represent.

Three final points are worth making. First, there is obviously a danger in talking about generational conflict as if all people of a particular age share the same values and prejudices. In England it is not only older people that argue that immigration should be controlled, although they are more likely to hold stronger views on the topic. Likewise, the majority of people aged forty and over do not vote for UKIP or the Tea Party. However, the fact that these parties are increasing in popularity does matter. It also matters that they are predominantly supported by older people, not least because this group vote in far larger numbers and tend to be more politically active and better organized, than younger generations.

The impact of the Tea Party, in driving out moderates and pushing the Republican Party to the right, has been well researched in the US. In the aftermath of UKIP’s success in May’s local elections, both main political parties have begun to ramp up their talk about immigration and Europe. It is also interesting that in all of the debates around cost cutting, austerity and the deficit, very little has been said about pensions. While the power of the grey vote has become something of a cliché in recent times, baby boomers will continue to have a disproportionate impact on the political system for the foreseeable future. It also seems likely that the attitudes and experiences of a cohort within that generation, which has finally found a more credible voice for its concerns and anxieties, will force mainstream politicians to adopt a more populist agenda.
====================
At least fifty calves and three human beings are living with no pulse in their bodies, thanks to an artificial pump that replaced their naturally-grown hearts, as detailed in a story from Popular Science. Doctors Bud Frazier and Billy Cohn devised the artificial organ, and it can completely replace a heart and provide a continuous flow of blood throughout a body without recreating a pulse. While the pulse produced by a creature's heart is an age-old indicator of life and death, it's been a tricky thing for the medical field to replicate — but the pulse doesn't appear to be necessary for life. Cohn tells Popular Science that "I think we're on the verge, right now, of solving the artificial-heart problem for good. All we had to do was get rid of the pulse." Be sure to hit the source link if you want to learn more about the incredible genesis of this technology.
====================
There’s been a long trail of discussions on the topic of adding watermarks to SolidWorks drawings. For one reason or another, watermarks are seen by some as necessary in drawings. The starting point of the conversion can be roughly traced back to the SolidWorks Forum in 2006. In December 2007, I did one article that incompletely addressed the need. If you just needed text to show up on your sheet format, you can review the first article.

Then, a question was asked at the first Stump the Chumps presentation at SolidWorks World 2008 about how to add watermarks to drawings. No answer was given at that presentation (the chumps where stumped).

Soon after SolidWorks World 2008, Ben Eadie (one of the stumped chumps) found an About SolidWorks article that discussed various aspects of this topic. (The article appears to have been maintained/updated since then.) Around that time, I also wrote a detailed article about how to link your custom properties to your watermark and provided a trick to get the watermark note to appear underneath elements on the drawing sheet. Linking custom properties to the watermark allows the watermark value to be controlled by Enterprise PDM workflows.

OK, so what was the trick to getting notes to appear underneath drawing elements? If you created a block of an annotation note on your sheet format, that note block will appear under your drawing (without obscuring drawing content).

In Solidworks 2013, you no longer need to use that trick to get your sheet format note to appear underneath drawing elements. There is now a command that resides in the right-click menu for each annotation note on the sheet format called “Display Note Behind Sheet”. When checked, the note is placed underneath drawing view elements on the drawing sheet, including other annotations, dimensions and model geometry in both HLR/HLV and shaded modes.

Display Note Behind Sheet is a checkmarked command in the

right-click menu for any annotation note on the sheet format.

.

With the checkmark set on the note in sheet format, the

note appears under all drawing view elements.

.

Uncheckmarking the option will apply standard ordering

of drawing elements, with geometry obsured by

the note.
====================
Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints posthumously baptized slain Jewish reporter Daniel Pearl last year, the Boston Globe reported on Wednesday.

Pearl was kidnapped in Pakistan's biggest city of Karachi in January 2002, where he was researching a story for the Wall Street Journal on Islamist militants, and was later beheaded.

American journalist Daniel Pearl who was killed by al-Qaida in 2002. Archive

What are your thoughts on this issue? Follow Haaretz.com on Facebook and share your views.

The Globe learned of the posthumous baptism from Helen Radkey, an excommunicated Mormon, who said she had found a record of the baptism that records indicate Pearl was baptized by proxy on June 1, 2011 at a Mormon temple in Twin Falls, Idaho.

Jews are particularly offended by an attempt to alter the religion of Holocaust victims, who were murdered because of their religion, and the baptism of Holocaust survivors was supposed to have been barred by a 1995 agreement.

Mormons believe posthumous baptism by proxy allows deceased persons to receive the Gospel in the afterlife. The church believes departed souls can then accept or reject the baptismal rites and contends the offerings are not intended to offend anyone.

Other religions, including the Catholic Church, have also publicly objected to the baptism of its members, and it's been widely reported that Mormon and GOP presidential nominee front-runner Mitt Romney's atheist father-in-law Edward Davies was posthumously baptized.

Keep updated: Sign up to our newsletter Email * Please enter a valid email address Sign up Please wait… Thank you for signing up. We've got more newsletters we think you'll find interesting. Click here Oops. Something went wrong. Please try again later. Try again Thank you, The email address you have provided is already registered. Close

This month, the Mormon Church has came under heavy criticism following reports that church members posthumously baptized Anne Frank and the parents of Holocaust survivor and Jewish rights advocate Simon Wiesenthal.

Radkey's recent monitoring also turned up a record for Holocaust survivor and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel and several of his relatives.
====================
The New York Times Editorial Board blames the victims:

An Inclusive French Republic

Paris Attacks Lay Bare Longtime Muslim Exclusion

Professed values must become a reality for the country’s many youths who feel marginalized.

By THE EDITORIAL BOARD JAN. 19, 2015

The recent terrorist attacks in Paris prompted millions to take to the streets to show national solidarity and to pay tribute to the 17 people murdered. The attacks have also inspired a lot of soul-searching, as the French struggle to understand how three men, born and raised in France, could have trained the murderous intent of Al Qaeda and the Islamic State on their own countrymen. And the attacks have revealed a larger, existential threat to France: that its social compact may be torn apart by sectarian polarization.

The profiles of the three attackers — Amedy Coulibaly and the brothers Chérif and Saïd Kouachi — are an indictment of the decades-long failure of France to address long-festering alienation and exclusion among too many Muslim immigrants and their French-born children. Unemployment is as high as 40 percent among youths in France’s disadvantaged neighborhoods. All three attackers grew up in poverty. Chérif Kouachi and Mr. Coulibaly spent time in prison. All ultimately found deadly purpose in Islamist terrorism.

Prison was the crucible of their radicalization. There are five million to six million Muslims in France, less than 10 percent of the total population, but 60 percent of France’s prison inmates are of “Muslim culture or religion,” according to a report presented to France’s National Assembly. …

There is also the problem of France’s secularism.
====================
Two environmentalists have declared a “global climate emergency” after the Northern hemisphere jet stream was found to have crossed the equator, bringing “unprecedented” changes to the world’s weather patterns.

Robert Scribbler and University of Ottawa researcher Paul Beckwith warned of the “weather-destabilising and extreme weather-generating” consequences of the jet stream shift.

However other scientists dismissed their claims, with one describing their concern over wind crossing the equator as "total nonsense".

We’ll tell you what’s true. You can form your own view. From 15p €0.18 $0.18 $0.27 a day, more exclusives, analysis and extras.

Scribbler and Beckwith said the anomalies were most likely precipitated by man-made climate change, which caused the jet stream to slow down and create larger waves.

Scribbler wrote in a post on his environmental blog on Tuesday: “It’s the very picture of weather-weirding due to climate change. Something that would absolutely not happen in a normal world. Something, that if it continues, basically threatens seasonal integrity.

The blogger explained the barrier between the two jet streams generates the strong divide between summer and winter, and the “death of winter” could commence if it is eroded as warm weather leaks into the “winter zone” of the year.

Shape Created with Sketch. Climate change around the world - in pictures Show all 17 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Climate change around the world - in pictures 1/17 Greenland Calved icebergs from the nearby Twin Glaciers are seen floating on the water in Qaqortoq, Greenland 2/17 Coastal systems and low-lying areas Flood damaged streets in Queens, New York where the historic boardwalk was washed away due to Hurricane Sandy in 2012. The report predicts that by the end of the century “hundreds of millions of people will be affected by coastal flooding and displaced due to land loss” Getty 3/17 Food security Widespread drought devastated a corn crop on a farm near Bruceville, Indiana in 2012. The report forecasts that climate change will reduce median yields by up to 2 per cent per decade for the rest of the century AFP/Getty 4/17 The global economy The Evening Standard headline board showing the words 'Black Friday Shares Crash' in London in October 2008 in London. The report warns a global mean temperature increase of 2.5C above pre-industrial levels may lead to global aggregate economic losses of between 0.2 and 2.0 per cent Getty 5/17 Human health A child suffering from malnutrition and diarrhoea is seen at the Banadir hospital in the Somalian capital of Mogadishu in 2009. Climate change will lead to increases in ill-health in many regions, with examples including an increased likelihood of under-nutrition. Getty 6/17 Human security A Muslim migrant holds his son as they are detained at the Immigration Police Office on the Thai-Malaysian border in March 2014. The report states that climate change over the 21st century will have a significant impact on forms of migration that compromise human security EPA 7/17 Freshwater resources A villager walks through a parched paddy in Tianlin county, China in 2012. The report finds that climate change will “reduce renewable surface water and groundwater resources significantly in most dry subtropical regions" Getty 8/17 Unique landscapes Machair, a grassy coastal habitat found only in north-west Scotland and the west coast of Ireland, is one of the several elements of the UK’s “cultural heritage” that is at risk from climate change Getty 9/17 Greenland A boat navigates among calved icebergs from the nearby Twin Glaciers in Qaqortoq, Greenland. Boats are a crucial mode of transportation in the country that has few roads. As cities like Miami, New York and other vulnerable spots around the world strategize about how to respond to climate change, many Greenlanders simply do what theyve always done: adapt. 'Were used to change, said Greenlander Pilu Neilsen. 'We learn to adapt to whatever comes. If all the glaciers melt, well just get more land 10/17 Norway The Svalbard Global Seed Vault is seen after being inaugurated in Longyearbyen, Norway. The 'doomsday' seed vault built to protect millions of food crops from climate change, wars and natural disasters opened deep within an Arctic mountain in the remote Norwegian archipelago of Svalbard 11/17 France A technician preparing to drain a vast underground lake at the Tete Rousse glacier on the Mont Blanc Alpine mountain, to avert a potentially disatrous flood. Some 65,000 cubic metres (2.3 million cubic feet) of water have gathered in a cavity, dangerously raising the pressure beneath the mountain, a favourite spot for holiday makers in Saint-Gervais-les-Bains 12/17 Iran Oroumieh, one of the biggest saltwater lakes on Earth, has shrunk more than 80 percent to 1,000 square kilometers in the past decade. It shrinks mainly because of climate change, expanded irrigation for surrounding farms and the damming of rivers that feed the body of water 13/17 Switzerland Cracked mud is picture at sunrise in the dried shores of Lake Gruyere affected by continous drought near the western Switzerland village of Avry-devant-Pont. A leading climate scientist warned that Europe should take action over increasing drought and floods, stressing that some climate change trends were clear despite variations in predictions 14/17 USA Cattle graze on grassland that remains dry and brown at the height of the rainy season in south of Bakersfield, California. Its third straight year of unprecedented drought, California is experiencing its driest year on record, dating back 119 years, and dating back as far as 500 years, according to some scientists who study tree rings 15/17 Pakistan An aerial view shows tents of flood-displaced people surrounded by water in southern Sehwan town. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) executive secretary Christiana Figueres met with people displaced by last year's devastating floods. Catastrophic monsoon rains that swept through the country in 2010 and affected some 20 million people, destroyed 1.7 million homes and damaged 5.4 million acres of arable land 16/17 Australia An aerial view of flooding in North Wagga Wagga. Climate change is amplifying risks from drought, floods, storm and rising seas, threatening all countries but small island states, poor nations and arid regions in particular, UN experts warned 17/17 Honduras Damages caused by a landslide on the Pan-American highway near La Moramulca, 55 Km south of Tegucigalpa. International highways have been washed out, villages isolated and thousands of families have lost homes and crops in a region that the United Nations has classified as one of the most affected by climate change 1/17 Greenland Calved icebergs from the nearby Twin Glaciers are seen floating on the water in Qaqortoq, Greenland 2/17 Coastal systems and low-lying areas Flood damaged streets in Queens, New York where the historic boardwalk was washed away due to Hurricane Sandy in 2012. The report predicts that by the end of the century “hundreds of millions of people will be affected by coastal flooding and displaced due to land loss” Getty 3/17 Food security Widespread drought devastated a corn crop on a farm near Bruceville, Indiana in 2012. The report forecasts that climate change will reduce median yields by up to 2 per cent per decade for the rest of the century AFP/Getty 4/17 The global economy The Evening Standard headline board showing the words 'Black Friday Shares Crash' in London in October 2008 in London. The report warns a global mean temperature increase of 2.5C above pre-industrial levels may lead to global aggregate economic losses of between 0.2 and 2.0 per cent Getty 5/17 Human health A child suffering from malnutrition and diarrhoea is seen at the Banadir hospital in the Somalian capital of Mogadishu in 2009. Climate change will lead to increases in ill-health in many regions, with examples including an increased likelihood of under-nutrition. Getty 6/17 Human security A Muslim migrant holds his son as they are detained at the Immigration Police Office on the Thai-Malaysian border in March 2014. The report states that climate change over the 21st century will have a significant impact on forms of migration that compromise human security EPA 7/17 Freshwater resources A villager walks through a parched paddy in Tianlin county, China in 2012. The report finds that climate change will “reduce renewable surface water and groundwater resources significantly in most dry subtropical regions" Getty 8/17 Unique landscapes Machair, a grassy coastal habitat found only in north-west Scotland and the west coast of Ireland, is one of the several elements of the UK’s “cultural heritage” that is at risk from climate change Getty 9/17 Greenland A boat navigates among calved icebergs from the nearby Twin Glaciers in Qaqortoq, Greenland. Boats are a crucial mode of transportation in the country that has few roads. As cities like Miami, New York and other vulnerable spots around the world strategize about how to respond to climate change, many Greenlanders simply do what theyve always done: adapt. 'Were used to change, said Greenlander Pilu Neilsen. 'We learn to adapt to whatever comes. If all the glaciers melt, well just get more land 10/17 Norway The Svalbard Global Seed Vault is seen after being inaugurated in Longyearbyen, Norway. The 'doomsday' seed vault built to protect millions of food crops from climate change, wars and natural disasters opened deep within an Arctic mountain in the remote Norwegian archipelago of Svalbard 11/17 France A technician preparing to drain a vast underground lake at the Tete Rousse glacier on the Mont Blanc Alpine mountain, to avert a potentially disatrous flood. Some 65,000 cubic metres (2.3 million cubic feet) of water have gathered in a cavity, dangerously raising the pressure beneath the mountain, a favourite spot for holiday makers in Saint-Gervais-les-Bains 12/17 Iran Oroumieh, one of the biggest saltwater lakes on Earth, has shrunk more than 80 percent to 1,000 square kilometers in the past decade. It shrinks mainly because of climate change, expanded irrigation for surrounding farms and the damming of rivers that feed the body of water 13/17 Switzerland Cracked mud is picture at sunrise in the dried shores of Lake Gruyere affected by continous drought near the western Switzerland village of Avry-devant-Pont. A leading climate scientist warned that Europe should take action over increasing drought and floods, stressing that some climate change trends were clear despite variations in predictions 14/17 USA Cattle graze on grassland that remains dry and brown at the height of the rainy season in south of Bakersfield, California. Its third straight year of unprecedented drought, California is experiencing its driest year on record, dating back 119 years, and dating back as far as 500 years, according to some scientists who study tree rings 15/17 Pakistan An aerial view shows tents of flood-displaced people surrounded by water in southern Sehwan town. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) executive secretary Christiana Figueres met with people displaced by last year's devastating floods. Catastrophic monsoon rains that swept through the country in 2010 and affected some 20 million people, destroyed 1.7 million homes and damaged 5.4 million acres of arable land 16/17 Australia An aerial view of flooding in North Wagga Wagga. Climate change is amplifying risks from drought, floods, storm and rising seas, threatening all countries but small island states, poor nations and arid regions in particular, UN experts warned 17/17 Honduras Damages caused by a landslide on the Pan-American highway near La Moramulca, 55 Km south of Tegucigalpa. International highways have been washed out, villages isolated and thousands of families have lost homes and crops in a region that the United Nations has classified as one of the most affected by climate change

He continued: “As the poles have warmed due to human-forced climate change, the Hemispherical Jet Streams have moved out of the Middle Latitudes more and more. You get this weather-destabilising and extreme weather generating mixing of seasons.”

Meanwhile, Mr Beckwith confirmed the changes would usher in a sustained period of “climate system mayhem” which could prove difficult to resolve.

He said: “Our climate system behaviour continues to behave in new and scary ways that we have never anticipated, or seen before.

“Welcome to climate chaos. We must declare a global climate emergency.

“The behaviour of the jet stream suggests massive hits to the [global] food supply and the potential for massive geopolitical unrest. There’s very strange things going on on planet Earth right now.”

There are two forms of jet streams - polar and subtropical - and the northern and southern hemispheres have one of each.

The streams are the products of atmospheric heating by solar radiation and kept in place by the force of inertia.

We’ll tell you what’s true. You can form your own view.

At The Independent, no one tells us what to write. That’s why, in an era of political lies and Brexit bias, more readers are turning to an independent source. Subscribe from just 15p a day for extra exclusives, events and ebooks – all with no ads.

Subscribe now
====================
Thanks to the mind-warping that occurred while obtaining a Literature degree, there are times in which I can’t keep seem to keep myself from engaging in textual analysis. Whether I’m at the movies, in front of the TV, or curled up with a book, there’s no escaping the temptation to ruminate further, to dig deeper, to figure out what’s really going on. For better or worse, several analytic seeds have been planted in my brain-bone: authorial intent is irrelevant, structure is never as sound as it hopes to be, and genuine meanings must be extrapolated.

Truth be told, approaching texts this way can be frustrating as hell, capable of usurping all the pleasure that makes us want to experience them in the first place. But given the right piece, and the right circumstances, textual analysis can be fresh to death. Alas, I suppose it’s the academic equivalent of the `ole Peter Parker conundrum!

After giving it a few solid listen-throughs, I’ve come to the determination that the Devin Townsend Project’s Deconstruction is an album rich with meaning. So engorged is this album – sonically, lyrically, musically – that it almost demands to be subjected to an in-depth interpretation. And in an effort to entertain myself, and perhaps stumble upon something worthwhile along the way, that is what I’ve attempted.

Join me as I deconstruct Deconstruction.

Anyone that’s been following Devin Townsend knows how DTP was birthed. But if you have no clue, here’s the annotation:

Feeling as though that Strapping Young Lad had run its course, Hevy Devy decided to lay the band to rest rather than perpetuate his spiral into self-parody. After a brief stint doing only production work, Townsend created Ziltoid the Omniscient, a sci-fi meta-commentary metal album that (perhaps) reignited his passion for playing. He then decided to embark on the Devin Townsend Project odyssey – four albums of markedly varied musical styles, each recorded with a different band.

So where does Deconstruction fit into all of this? Well, it’s the third album in the sequence, succeeding the upbeat pop-metal stylings of Addicted and preceding the ethereally laid-back Ghost. Devin’s long been suggesting that this third entry would be a bombastic, over-the-top examination of metal itself:

“Deconstruction is a hard one to describe. The more I do, it just sounds like a journey up my own ass in a lot of ways. The bottom line with it is it is a very complicated and interesting record with a lot of dynamics and music that is very heavy even for me. It is a really heavy and complicated record but not a typical metal record. It is more of a symphonic type of thing I am trying to do, whether I succeed someone else will have to judge. I want to include a lot of different musicians in the metal genre that can do the vocals that I am not good at, like death metal vocals. When I do death metal vocals, I sound like Super Grover. Having those type of people do it is the same as having Anneke on Addicted.”

One might postulate that Deconstruction is Devin Townsend’s attempt to unravel the meaning behind heavy music by pushing it to its most hyperbolic state. In fact, this becomes clear even before listening to a single note – with four tracks surpassing the nine-minute mark (one of which is more than sixteen minutes in length) and a veritable all-star guest list, the album is daunting to even the most seasoned of headbangers. These tunes are not designed for the radio-friendly masses, but for the leather-clad, greasy-haired rockers who think they’re heavy as fuck.

But Deconstruction is less of concerned about appeasing these maniacs than challenging them. After years of being heralded as the heaviest Devin Townsend collection of all-time, the opening track (Praise the Lowered) greets the listener with three minutes of pure electronica. Sure, shit hits the fan and the double bass-drums explode after that, but the uneasiness has already been inception’d. From this point, one cannot reasonably expect to traverse the well-worn paths. Instead of take on the freeway, Metal-Virgil has tossed Listener-Dante into the trunk of his Elysian Station Wagon so that they can break the speed limits on the back roads. More twists. More turns. More danger.

Again, I consider myself a fairly well-versed fan of metal, yet this album positively confounded me with its sonic boom. Applying Devin’s signature wall-of-sound production to the constantly-transforming array of riffs, Deconstruction is akin to trying to interpret a foreign language while the speaker screams faster than Bizzy Bone raps. After the first listen, I sat back and muttered, “Well, that was awesome…what the hell just happened?” Since the first experience, I’ve been listening incessantly in a variety of settings (personal stereo, car stereo, high-quality headphones), and I’m discovering new things each time. I’d love to see studio’s audio-files, because I’m pretty certain that each tune probably has about a fah-zillion tracks.

Musically, this is the most complicated stuff I’ve ever heard from Devin Townsend – none of his projects excepted. The guitar shreddery is exaggerated, with sweeps (and bleeps and creeps!) dancing throughout throughout the entire album. Townsend also laid down the bass (which is syrup-thick and punchier than a Tyson highlight reel) and the synths, which are alternately dazzling like Jordan Rudess and atmospheric Ã la Kevin Moore. Additionally, it becomes evident quickly as to why the drumming talents of both Ryan Van Poederooyen and Soilwork’s Dirk Verbeuren were summoned; heavy grooves following grinds following blasts following heavy breakdowns. To my ears, RVP shines most on Planet of the Apes while Verbeuren’s most frenzied festival is Sumeria – these two tracks showcase the versatility and that Townsend required for the project.

But as intimated above, it isn’t the sheer brutality that really sets the album apart. No, it’s the defying of convention (or mayhaps more appropriately, its subversion through Nth degree-amplification). These nine tracks yank the thrasher by the collar and scream in his face, “You think you like heavy music? What if a symphony’s playing alongside it? Do you like it now?! How about if there’s a choir? Is that still metal? What if we sing about cheeseburgers?”

That’s right – the title track is about the deconstruction of a cheeseburger. And I’m fairly certain it’s genius.

Lyrically, Deconstruction is a self-aware masterpiece that hints at an overarching narrative while providing a profusion of evocative lines. Devin’s explained the album to be a cohesive tale about one man’s journey to Hell to learn the secrets of the universe; this voyage proves futile because enlightenment requires the consumption of a cheeseburger. Which is awesome, but the pilgrim just so happens to be a “vegi-ma-tarian.” This could very well be Townsend’s acknowledgment that even if he tries to usher us towards a conscious understanding of why we crave the music we crave, the answer is elusive. Is there a reason we seek out art? Probably. But can we ever consciously quantify why? Maybe.

Maybe not.

So while there’s a concept afoot, I also think that each track can be examined individually. For example, The Mighty Masturbator is Townsend’s tongue-in-cheek acceptance of what he must become in order to succeed as a musician. Especially towards the tail-end of SYL, Townsend’s always been weary of being celebrated simply for his technical prowess – not only does it foster an overinflated sense of self-worth, but it’s also ultimately boring and has very little to do with great songwriting. In fact, the fan-favorite Ziltoid could be viewed as a commentary on this, a parody of the self-parody that Devin Townsend wanted to avoid perpetuating.

The Mighty Masturbator continues this condemnation of expectations. By placing hilarious lyrics on top of absolutely mind-bending sections of time-signature shifts and shredding, there is a message of conflicting ideologies being conveyed. Consider the fact that with a hillbilly-simpleton’s voice, Townsend spits out a solution to all of his problems:

“oh I reeeal good at dat savin’ da world thing dere…oh yeah, I got my special savin’ da world boots…”

So what is this plan? What ace does the musician have up his sleeve?

“Ladies and Gentlemen!” Egads! Astounding! MY WORLDS!! Ladies and Gentlemen, I now see my life’s purpose: I AM THE MIGHTY MASTURBATOR!!!”

With self-deprecating analogs like Ziltoid and the Mighty Masturbator, Devin Townsend is able to play incredibly complicated music while simultaneously acknowledging the inherent silliness. The teen-rockers in us love to see wanking over instruments. But as we mature, we can step back and ask, “What’s the point?” And I think that on some levels, this may be the very message of Deconstruction: the acceptance that we can (and should) have fun with complex, technical music, but that we shouldn’t take it too seriously.

Which can be a tough message to swallow for many fans, myself included. To me, Deconstruction is a seriously awesome album, one that I’ve attempted to analyze but haven’t even scratched the surface. So maybe I should’ve heeded the very advice I’m speculating that the album is doling out.

Sometimes the search for understanding comes up short. So live in the moment, and enjoy what you can while you can. Maybe greater purpose has to be arrived at organically. The aforementioned years of textual analysis may help inform my perspective, but they shouldn’t constitute my perspective. Art is meant to be experienced, enjoyed, and perhaps even contemplated, but not to the point of losing its lustre.

Or maybe I just need to shut up, eat a cheeseburger, and listen to Deconstruction.
====================
Mexicans Want New Approach To Bloody Drug War

Enlarge this image toggle caption Christian Palma/AP Christian Palma/AP

Second of two parts

Mexicans select a new president on July 1, and they want a leader who can reduce the rampant violence in their country. Warring drug cartels have killed more than 50,000 people in the past 5 1/2 years, while thousands have disappeared and some cities have been turned into lawless zones.

The candidate who leads in the polls, Enrique Pena Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, has said that if elected, he will change the current unpopular strategy of an all-out war against the cartels and focus on reducing violent crimes against Mexicans.

Whoever it is, the next president of Mexico faces a huge challenge in cities like Nuevo Laredo, just across the Rio Grande from Laredo, Texas. The hemisphere's busiest trade crossing is one of the latest battlegrounds between Mexico's two supercartels: the Zetas and the Sinaloans.

Last month, authorities discovered nine tortured bodies hanging from an overpass, and 14 human heads left in a jumbo ice chest in front of Nuevo Laredo City Hall.

"All of this destroys an image of a city," says Abraham de Anda, a well-groomed waiter passing a balmy morning on a park bench not far from where the grisly cooler was found. "It's frightening the people, frightening the children. What happens when a child sees this? What kind of future do they imagine? A future filled with blood, terror, danger, massacres."

Need For Change In Strategy

And the violence doesn't end there.

In the past month in Nuevo Laredo, narcos machine-gunned a local university and the leading newspaper, and car-bombed the hotel where the military is billeted. Military police patrol Nuevo Laredo these days, after the corrupt police force was disbanded last summer. Shops are closing and residents who can afford to are fleeing to Texas.

"We hope the new government finds a way to stop this," de Anda says, "stop the narco-trafficking, stop the kidnapping, stop the extortion. The primary function of a government is to protect its people."

Pena Nieto, the presidential front-runner, says he'll do just that if he wins. But the popular former governor of the state of Mexico says he would change the focus of the current security strategy. He told The Associated Press his central theme would be to reduce homicide, kidnapping and extortion — crimes that vex Mexicans much more than drug trafficking.

Pena Nieto has not provided many specifics beyond proposing the creation of a national police force to replace local corrupt departments, such as Nuevo Laredo's. He said in a debate last month he would leave in place the 45,000 military troops current President Felipe Calderon deployed to violence-plagued states and not return them to their barracks until security conditions improved.

Pena Nieto's strategy — targeting criminal violence over pursuing and arresting capos — would be more popular than the current approach.

"People don't care about the drugs; people don't care about the narcos. It's the violence associated with the drugs," says Carlos Seoane, vice president for the security firm Pinkerton Consulting and Investigations in Mexico. There's a name for this strategy, he says — crime management.

"So what has to be the message?" Seoane continues. "If you go over this line we will fight you until we eliminate you. We can do business as long as there are no killings, no shootings, everything quiet like it was in the past."

Calderon, of the Party of National Action — PAN — declared war on organized crime when he took office in December 2006. Since then, his security forces have captured or killed an impressive number of most-wanted traffickers.

Enlarge this image toggle caption Alfredo Estrella/AFP/Getty Images Alfredo Estrella/AFP/Getty Images

But every time he tries to destroy a cartel, underlings scramble for power, the multiheaded hydra survives, and the violence seems to get worse.

"I became convinced that his security strategy was wrong," says Mexican author and historian Enrique Krauze. "It was like the charge of an army, like 'Shock and Awe.' Look what has happened."

Distrust Of Mexican Authorities



Last month, in its annual human-rights report, the U.S. State Department listed instances of unlawful killings, disappearances and torture at the hands of Mexican security forces, as well as the narcos.

Also last month, the Mexican government arrested three high-ranking army generals under suspicion of using their positions to aid and abet drug trafficking. One of them was the former second in command at the Defense Ministry.

Despite these missteps, Washington remains a big supporter of Calderon's hit-'em-hard strategy. The State Department has sent Mexico hundreds of millions of dollars in aircraft, training and law enforcement equipment.

"It will be very important that [the next president] understands there has to be a continued effort to attack the supply side of these drug cartels," says David Gaddis, former chief of enforcement for the Drug Enforcement Administration, who has deep experience in Latin America. He now runs Global Protection Solutions, an international security consulting firm.

"[The] unfortunate byproduct being violence has been viewed as a huge negative by the Mexican people, and that's understandable," Gaddis says. "Yet, I think if we look in general terms the success of the administration has been that the drug cartels today are much weaker today than they were five to six years ago."

Jorge Carrasco, who covers national security and justice for the respected weekly newsmagazine Proceso, argues that Calderon's strategy of taking down kingpins has helped the DEA more than it has helped Mexico.

"Something has to be done against the narco-traffickers, without a doubt," he says from the magazine's editorial office in Mexico City. "But you don't put out a fire by throwing gasoline on it, and that's what has happened with Felipe Calderon. Six years later, the Sinaloa cartel and the Zetas continue to exist. La Familia Michoacana changed names. Narco-trafficking in Mexico enjoys absolute good health."

'Good Old Days' Of Drug Trafficking?

There is a popular perception in Mexico that when Pena Nieto's party, the PRI, was in power for seven decades it kept the drug lords in line and took a cut of the action.

"The corrupt system of the PRI got along very well with the underworld," says Krauze, the historian. "Some people say the system of the PRI was corrupt. No, it was corruption itself."

Despite the party's denial, word on the street in Mexico City is that if the PRI comes to power again, it will negotiate with the narcos.

"If the PRI wins, they'll give free rein again to the narcos. They're pure bandits in the PRI, pure shameless rats," says Israel Quiroz, a 36-year-old heavy equipment operator taking a break in the shade beside the capital's Monument to the Revolution.

One thing is certain: When the new president takes office on Dec. 1, Mexicans exhausted and dispirited by the cartel free-for-all will want change, and they will want it fast.
====================
He has been described “as a gift from the heavens” by the former Bayern Munich manager Ottmar Hitzfeld and as “a future all-time best in the club’s history” by the current coach, Pep Guardiola. On top of that, a heap of injuries since the winter break have arguably made David Alaba the most crucial player in the Bavarian club’s campaign to win the Champions League, too.

The World Cup winners Jérome Boateng (adductor) and Javier Martínez (knee) are out of contention for a few more weeks, Holger Badstuber is nursing a broken leg, the Moroccan Mehdi Benatia has only just returned to fitness after a lengthy lay-off. The responsibility to make Bayern’s notoriously high line work and to provide the platform for their uncompromising attacking game has thus fallen on Alaba, who had never played as a centre-back before this season.

Fortunately for Guardiola, the Austria international has excelled in the unfamiliar role with customary athleticism and application. After starting out as a midfielder and getting converted into one of the world’s best left-backs by Louis van Gaal in 2010, the makeshift centre-back has turned defensive leader, leaving his manager lost for words. “He’s just incredible, he’s just … wow,” the Spaniard exclaimed a couple of weeks ago. “He can play absolutely everywhere.”

Arjen Robben doubtful for Bayern Munich’s second leg against Juventus Read more

It is fair to say Alaba wears his new‑found importance very lightly. As he ambles into the small interview room at Munich’s Säbener Strasse in a plain black T-shirt and trainers, Alaba is unassuming to the point of being shy, a little at odds with his reputation as a social-media prankster – his oeuvre contains a series of shots of the midfielder Franck Ribéry dozing and a nearly-nude double-selfie with his former team-mate Mitchell Weiser, in thongs – and as a typically Viennese lausbub (rascal) who once told the club’s former president Uli Hoeness that he had to “think about” an allegation by a concerned member of the public that he was painting the town red with Ribéry in Munich. “It must have been different black guy, herr präsident,” Alaba told Hoeness the next day.

Still only 23, he talks matter-of-factly of the challenge of facing the Italian champions, Juventus, in the second leg of the last‑16 round on Wednesday (“they’ve shown that they’re a great side with great players, they almost leave no gaps in defence and can attack very well – it’ll be very hard”) but becomes much more animated when the conversation turns to music.

“I love listening to hip-hop and going to concerts with Jérôme Boateng; it’s my hobby,” he says, his eyes lighting up. His Nigeria-born father, George, works as a DJ in the Austrian capital and had a minor dance hit with Indian Song (Two in One) in 1997. But unlike his younger sister Rosemaie, David has no ambition to release records. “I’m better on the pitch than with the microphone,” he says. A YouTube video of him singing R Kelly’s I Believe I Can Fly in a car with the former Liverpool winger Ryan Babel – they were Hoffenheim team-mates when Alaba was on loan there in 2011 – suggests he is probably right.

Bayern knew they had signed “one of Europe’s best young talents” in 2008, when a sightseeing tour of the academy and the city convinced Alaba to opt for Munich rather than several Premier League clubs. As a kid he idolised Patrick Vieira and dreamt of playing for Arsenal.

But even the club are astonished by the player’s development into a master of all trades. He runs all day – “I started jogging with my dad when I was five years old” – he is a fine passer, a precise tackler and pretty good when it comes to free-kicks, too. Few players are as versatile, fewer still are so outstanding in so many different ways, irrespective of the job they are being asked to do. No wonder Bayern are trying hard to tie him down to a contract beyond 2018.

Alaba is adamant that the credit for his emergence as a football universalist does not lie so much with him as with Guardiola. “He pushes everybody, every day, in a good way,” he says. “Especially me. I’ve been getting better with every year he’s been here, because of him. But I didn’t know myself that I could play as central defender.”

N’Golo Kanté to Mattia Destro: what Europe’s top signings teach us about how to spend Read more

Guardiola did, however. The Catalan has fielded Alaba as a central midfielder, winger, as an orthodox left-back and – in one of his major tactical innovations in Germany – as an advanced, inside left-back pushing into midfield, sometimes in the same game, and has never found him wanting. “I’ve yet to understand what position Alaba played tonight,” the 1982 World Cup winner and TV pundit Paolo Rossi said after Bayern’s 7-1 destruction of Roma in October 2014.

“The coach is very demanding but it’s really amazing to train with him,” says Alaba. “It’s like he reinvented football. He thinks about football 24 hours a day, he’s always explaining to us on the screen what’s the best way to attack, best way to defend, the best way to play with the ball. Now that he’s here in his third year, we understand him better as well. We wouldn’t be as successful without him. He’s given us the best tools – you can see it in our game. His detailed preparation makes it easier for us to beat opponents. And to beat them better as well.”

Guardiola’s obsessive methods and Bayern’s squad depth have put them on course for a fourth successive Bundesliga title, and they will be second favourites, behind Barcelona, to win the Champions League if they can finish the job against Juve, where they got a 2-2 draw in the first leg.

The announcement of the manager’s departure at the end of the season could have been handled differently – the team were somewhat disappointed that he did not tell them in person he was off to Manchester City – but Alaba coolly dismisses the suggestion their season could be affected as a consequence. “We have goals and dreams that we work very hard for to achieve,” he says. “We don’t have a lot of space in our heads to worry about other things.” It goes without saying for him that personal preferences, too, must be subordinated. “I’ll play wherever I can help the team,” Alaba shrugs, with a knowing lausbub smile.

Because he does just that.
====================
(IraqiNews.com) On Monday, several media sources quoted from ISIS-allied websites claiming that the so-called Islamic State has constructed a dirty bomb after stealing 40kg of uranium from al-Mosul University.

Only four months after the 40kg of uranium and other chemical materials were reported missing from the University of al-Mosul, ISIS militants appeared to make threats and hold online discussions on social media regarding the destruction that such a bomb would wreak in London.

Muslim-al-Britani, an ISIS-allied account on Twitter posted today before it was suspended: “By the way the Islamic State does have a Dirty bomb. We found some radioactive material in al-Mosul University.”

Noteworthy, ISIS has seized a military base in northern Iraq last June, which contains Saddam Hussein’s stockpile of chemical weapons, including hundreds of warheads containing sarin and mustard gas.

Related articles:






====================
Have you been naughty or nice? A self-proclaimed “Christmas Capital” — thanks to one of the oldest and largest Christmas markets in Europe — Strasbourg welcomes the virtuous and vice-loving alike to its December citywide extravaganza of gift bazaars, concerts, lights and mulled wine. But the city is hardly a holiday novelty. Nestled along France’s border with Germany, Strasbourg has been fawned over and fought over for centuries by the two nations, ping-ponging back and forth before returning to France at the end of World War II. The result is a fetching Franco-Teutonic core of cobbled traffic-free lanes, canals, half-timbered houses and spires where you can fill both your belly (with copious rustic Alsatian dishes) and your brain (with impressive art museums). Toss in the seat of the European Parliament, a lively bar scene and some winningly repurposed historical buildings — now elegant hotels and gastronomic havens — and you have an international city with year-round appeal.

Friday

1. Scenic History | 4 p.m.

Over the centuries here in Strasbourg, Gutenberg invented the printing press, a local military officer wrote the French national anthem and the young Goethe wrote and wrote. These and other tidbits form the narrative of “Strasbourg, Over Twenty Centuries of History,” a scenic Batorama boat tour that circles Strasbourg’s Grand Île, a Unesco World Heritage site, and proceeds upriver to institutions of the European Commission. Passing grassy banks, you’ll ogle architectural masterworks like the Romanesque Église St. Paul, the flamboyant neo-Gothic Lycée des Pontonniers and the silvery postmodern European Court of Human Rights, animated by multilanguage commentary. Adults 12.50 euros, or $15 at $1.20 to the euro.

2. ­Canals and Towers | 5:30 p.m.

Strolling past gingerbread-style mansions in the Petite France neighborhood, you half expect to glimpse Hansel and Gretel scurrying across the cobblestones. A web of lanes, canals, narrow bridges, ivy-draped walls and wrought-iron streetlamps, the storybook atmosphere invites meandering. Place du Quartier Blanc leads to medieval stone towers and Barrage Vauban, a 17th-century defensive fortification resembling a covered stone bridge. In leafy Place Benjamin Zix, La Corde à Linge cafe offers lovely views of the canals and classic half-timbered houses. A Café Alsacien (7.50 euros) — spiked with Gewürztraminer eau-de-vie — warms body and spirit.
====================
The Morgentaler abortion clinic in Fredericton will close at the end of July following a 20-year fight with the New Brunswick government over funding.

The clinic held a news conference on Thursday to explain the decision, which will make it even more difficult for women to get abortions in New Brunswick — a province that already has one of the most restrictive policies in Canada.

The province's Department of Health has always refused to cover abortions performed at the clinic, making it the only province in Canada with a private abortion clinic that isn't funded by medicare.

“Regulation 84-20 remains on the books and New Brunswick women will now have no option to access abortions in the province except by meeting its discriminatory and medically unjustifiable requirements,” according to a statement issued by the clinic.

“Had the province provided funding for clinic abortions, or paid for abortions for women without ability to pay, the clinic would not be closing. To make matters worse, Regulation 84-20 makes it impossible for the majority of New Brunswick women to access an abortion in one of the two hospitals where the service is provided.”

The Morgentaler clinic is the only private abortion facility in New Brunswick and the only one east of Montreal.

The province pays for abortions at two hospitals, but only if a woman gets approval from two doctors who certify the procedure is “medically necessary.”

"It breaks my heart to have to do this. It absolutely does," clinic manager Simone Liebovitch told CBC News as abortion rights supporters rallied in front of the clinic.

"I'm not sure what women are going to do after we leave. I really have no idea," she said.

"Women deserve equal access to reproductive health care. We've been saying that for 20 years. I can only hope that when this door closes, there'll be other doors opening up."

Health Minister Ted Flemming had little to say heading into the New Brunswick Legislature, referring reporters to an issued statement that indicates the province will stick with the status quo.

"Women will continue to have access to medically necessary abortions in the province with the approval of two physicians," the statement said.

Liebovitch contends the required physician referrals pose a barrier to access. "We’ve repeated that over and over and over again," she said.

"There’s a problem of women who don’t have doctors, there’s a problem of women who have anti-choice doctors.”

The Morgentaler clinic opened in June 1994 and has provided abortion services to more than 10,000 women.

The current fee for the procedure is $700 before 14 weeks of pregnancy, and $850 between 14 and 16 weeks.

The clinic says it has never been able to meet its expenses and financial shortfalls were covered by Dr. Henry Morgentaler, who died nearly a year ago.

“In the past 10 years, the clinic has contributed over $105,400 to subsidize abortions for women unable to pay the full amount,” the clinic said.

There have been other financial headaches for the facility.

The clinic sustained more than $100,000 in flood damages in 2008. While other downtown Fredericton businesses were given financial compensation, the clinic did not receive any government cash because the building was owned by Morgentaler, who was not a New Brunswick citizen.

The clinic would have closed in 2008 if Morgentaler hadn’t paid for the repairs himself, according to the statement.

Planned closing a 'sad and dark day'

Joyce Arthur, executive director of the Abortion Rights Coalition of Canada, called the announcement a "very sad and dark day for New Brunswick women.

"The province created this crisis and showed callous disregard for women’s health needs. As we’ve seen in P.E.I. where there’s no access, some women will harm themselves in attempts to induce an abortion," Arthur said in a statement.

"If N.B. does not improve access quickly, women’s health and safety is at risk, especially young women and disadvantaged women."

The Morgentaler clinic was also used by women from Prince Edward Island.

Abortion rights supports rallied in front of the Morgentaler clinic in Fredericton In April. (CBC) P.E.I. women whose abortions were covered by medicare generally travelled to Halifax. But if the procedures weren't being covered, they would often visit the Fredericton clinic, making up about 10 per cent of the clientele.

Medicare has no reciprocal funding agreements on abortion with other provinces. So, an Ontario student at the University of New Brunswick would have to pay $1,800 at hospital or go to the Morgentaler clinic.

"It doesn't make any sense to me," said Fredericton area resident Jaden Fitzherbert, one of the abortion rights supporters who gathered outside the clinic on Thursday, carrying signs with slogans such as "My body, my choice," and "Keep abortion safe and legal."

"We're going backwards," agreed Marina King.

"Everything else is moving forward and we're going backwards," said Fitzherbert.

Peter Ryan, executive director of the New Brunswick Right to Life Association, which operates Women's Care Centre offering pregnancy counselling next door to the abortion clinic, contends the announcement is a "stunt."

"My first reaction was, 'Oh boy.' Second reaction, was, 'Hold on a second, is this for real?'"

Ryan believes it's intended to put pressure on the provincial government to loosen hospital restrictions, or find a new private funder.

"When we bought this place, my hope and prayer was that we would outlast them (the abortion clinic), and that's still my hope and prayer," he said.

Morgentaler sued the N.B. government

Morgentaler opened his first abortion clinic in Montreal in 1969, when attempting to induce an abortion was a crime punishable by life imprisonment and the woman faced imprisonment of two years.

Anti-abortion activists targeted the clinics, and rallies, protests and many legal battles followed. On Jan. 28, 1988, the Supreme Court struck down Canada's abortion law as unconstitutional.

The Morgentaler clinic in Fredericton, which has provided abortion services to more than 10,000 women over 20 years, is closing in July. (CBC) That did not end Morgentaler's legal battles.

He launched a lawsuit against the New Brunswick government in 2002, demanding the government pay for procedures at his clinic.

The lawsuit,which the clinic says cost him more than $1 million, has been in limbo since the death of the abortion rights activist last May.

New Brunswick's Department of Health declined to comment on the lawsuit on Thursday.

"As this matter is still before the courts, the department has no further comment," the statement said.

Sarah Leblanc, of the RegroupementféministeduNouveau-Brunswick, a Moncton-based group that supports abortion rights, says if there's any change in the service the Morgentaler clinic offers, the provincial government must improve access in hospitals, because abortions are legal.

"The bottom line is women have to be able to access that service of their own choice. It's the woman's decision. We have the right to decide what happens with our lives and our bodies," she said.

Abortion politics

The Alward government has been content in the last four years with the status quo of requiring two doctors to sign off on an abortion.

Liberal Leader Brian Gallant has called himself pro-choice. In the legislature on Thursday, Gallant called for an independent review of access to abortion in the province.

"I think it's safe to say that there are even greater concerns now, over access, over funding, over safety. Will the premier update us on what his government is planning to do to address this situation?”

Gallant did not, however, commit to changing the province's two-doctor requirement for a woman to get access to an abortion.

Asked whether his party backs him on abortion, Gallant said he declared himself as pro-choice when running as leader for the party and the party chose him.

The clinic not being available would put, I would imagine, some pressure on government to rethink what was essentially an ideological position, not one that was grounded in real public policy making. - Jula Hughes, lawyer and clinic volunteer

Jula Hughes, a lawyer who volunteers with the Fredericton clinic, said the closure of the Fredericton clinic could make abortion availability an issue for politicians in the upcoming September election.

"It was easy to get away with not taking a positive position on access to reproductive health because the clinic was here," Hughes said.

"The clinic not being available would put, I would imagine, some pressure on government to rethink what was essentially an ideological position, not one that was grounded in real public policy making."

Green Party Leader David Coon said the clinic closure underlines the need for the Alward government to move quickly on establishing "quality reproductive health services" for women in New Brunswick.

He is calling on the health minister to immediately establish a working group to assist with the transition and transformation of abortion services in the province.

The Green Party's advocate for health and the status of women, Marilyn Merritt-Gray, says services should include reproductive health screening and treatment, contraceptive information and methods, and abortion services.

"The provincial government's responsibility is to ensure women have access to caring and quality reproductive health care services, and this includes timely access to safe abortion services," said Merritt-Gray.

"This means the Alward government must repeal Regulation 84/20, which imposes unacceptable restrictions on women who need timely access to safe abortion services."
====================
Conor McGregor’s nomination for Irish Sportsperson of the Year is a big moment for the sport of mixed martial arts in Ireland.

While McGregor’s achievements over the course of the past 12 months mean that his inclusion on the shortlist is entirely justified, there is still a vocal section of the Irish media who rail against MMA at every opportunity. McGregor’s placement among Ireland’s premiere sporting figures by RTÉ (Ireland’s national broadcaster), as well as his two-belt triumph last month in New York, has gone a long way to help legitimise mixed martial arts in his home nation.

Remember, it was just a few short years ago when mixed martial arts was practically unheard of in Ireland’s mainstream media and now McGregor’s sporting achievements are being recognised alongside soccer, rugby, boxing and others.

McGregor is the bookmakers’ overwhelming favourite to take home the award in this weekend’s ceremony in Dublin.

Details on voting can be found here.

(329)

comments
====================
Terrebonne substitute teacher arrested for having sex with teens

Image via Houma Police Department

HOUMA – The Houma Police Department arrested a Terrebonne School System substitute teacher for having sex with three teenagers at her home.

Heidi Verret, 30, was arrested for one count of indecent behavior with a juvenile and three counts of carnal knowledge of a juvenile.

The investigation revealed that Verret was having inappropriate sexual conversations with a 12-year-old via social media messaging, according to police. Detectives also discovered that Verret had sex with three juveniles, ranging from 15 to 16 years old, at her home.

According to police, she had sex with the teens for several months.

Verret was arrested on the above charges and was transported to the Terrebonne Parish Criminal Justice Complex.
====================
Moving forward in Europe and the Premiership

Hi everyone,

Two consecutive wins allow us to close March (due to the international break) in a very positive way, and we are convinced that the end of the season will bring us a lot of joy. The week has been very demanding physically but we gave everything we had and, despite the FA Cup disappointment, we have moved forward in Europe and also we have got closer to the top four in the Premiership.

The first win was against Rostov and it also implied being in the draw of the Europa League quarter-finals. As I’ve been saying since the season started, we’re all very excited about this competition. Against Anderlecht we will have the opportunity to prove it again and try to make it to the next round.

Juan Mata goal – Manchester United vs Rostov 1-0 Europa League by footbie.com

The second win was against Middlesbrough on Sunday. It was another good game from the team, with an opponent that never gave up. The truth is we’ve been unbeaten in the Premier League for the last 18 games now, and it’s not by chance. A few draws have penalised us, certainly, but the team always had options to win those games. On Sunday, the victory came with an extra prize: the 600th win in the Premier League, which gives you an idea of how big this club is. We must keep that in mind in order to understand what it means to be wearing this shirt. Besides, I was able to meet Negredo, Barragan and also Victor, a good friend of mine and former team-mate. I wish all of them the best in their fight to remain in the Premier League.

In Spain, Real Madrid and Barcelona played against two classic teams of la Liga such as Athletic and Valencia, respectively… Meanwhile Atletico won a key game against Sevilla to approach the third spot of the table. That is going to be another interesting battle to watch in the next few months. And the same can be said of the fight to avoid relegation. It’s going to be thrilling, as it is the race for promotion in the Second Division.

Today, before signing off, I’d like to honour the memory of Chuck Berry, who passed away this weekend. Those who know about music will tell you that rock and roll wouldn’t be what it is now without him. All I have to add is that many times his songs make me happy when I’m at home, in the car… He’s one of the artists with a bigger legacy in the history of modern music. He’s gone, but of course we have his songs. Let’s enjoy them.

Hugs,
====================
The Trump administration’s post-disaster recovery effort for Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria’s devastation is the very definition of snafu.

Some 12 days after super-hurricane hit, FEMA has only restored 7 percent of the island’s power, up from 5 percent earlier this week. That means more than 3 million American citizens still lack power.

But as Trump made a visit to the devastated territory on Tuesday, he seemed unaware of the situation around him, literally saying, “Flashlights! You don’t need ’em anymore!” as he handed out flashlights to islanders who in fact very much need them.

"Flashlights! You don't need 'em anymore!" Pres. Trump says as he hands out flashlights at a Puerto Rico aid center. https://t.co/MwM8AjHH7x — Micah Grimes (@MicahGrimes) October 3, 2017

Hurricane Maria destroyed most of the high-voltage transmission towers and ruined almost all of the distribution network.

Last Tuesday, Reuters put together this important graphic on “power restoration after major U.S. hurricanes.”

It’s now a week later. FEMA has only restored some 7 percent of the island’s power 14 days into this disaster — long after virtually all the power was restored in Florida from Irma.

Advertisement

Equally shocking, ABC News reports that FEMA officials say their “goal is to return power to 25 percent of the island within a month,” which would mean more than 2.5 million U.S. citizens would still be powerless.

LATEST: 7% of Puerto Rico has power, up from 5% yesterday, FEMA officials say; goal is to return power to 25% of the island within a month. — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 3, 2017

Trump’s response to the current quality of life for most of the 3.4 million Puerto Ricans was completely tone-deaf during a press briefing on the island. “Everyone around this table and everyone watching can be very proud of what’s taking place in Puerto Rico,” the president said.

Last week, as Puerto Rican officials were just barely coming to terms with the scope of the destruction, Trump took to Twitter to seemingly blame the territory for its current circumstances, citing its debt, aging infrastructure, and outdated grid.

…It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated. Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump’s lack of awareness or concern regarding the severity of the damage in Puerto Rico, and just how long it will take to repair, perhaps shouldn’t come as a surprise considering his Energy secretary’s best idea for rebuilding the island’s grid is to expedite the introduction of small nuclear power plants that don’t even exist.
====================
For May 5, 2015, here's how the stock market did today, earnings reports, the top stock market news, and stocks to watch based on today's market moves…

How Did the Stock Market Do Today?

Dow: 17,928.20, -142.20, -0.79%

S&P 500: 2,089.46, -25.03, -1.18%

Nasdaq: 4,939.33, -77.60, -1.55%

The DJIA Index slumped 142 points on weak economic trade data that suggests the U.S. economy contracted in the first quarter. Although GDP registered at 0.2% growth during the first reading last week, a surge in imports to levels not seen since October 2008 hints that future revisions might trend downward.

The S&P 500 Volatility Index (VIX), the market's fear gauge, jumped 11.6% on the day.

Top Stock Market News Today

Stock Market Recap: Investors are worried about U.S. trade data. This morning the United States reported a surge in imports that lifted the nation's trade deficit 43.1% to $51.4 billion in March. The nation hasn't seen these levels in six and a half years. Economists said they anticipate robust growth in the second quarter and blamed the end of a recent labor dispute at several West Coast ports for these import figures.

Investors are worried about U.S. trade data. This morning the United States reported a surge in imports that lifted the nation's trade deficit 43.1% to $51.4 billion in March. The nation hasn't seen these levels in six and a half years. Economists said they anticipate robust growth in the second quarter and blamed the end of a recent labor dispute at several West Coast ports for these import figures. Top Dog No More: In a surprising twist following the departure of its founder Bill Gross, Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO) is now no longer the market's largest bond fund. Following two years of capital outflows, the company's massive fund Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTAX) has slipped to second behind Vanguard's index bond fund, Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund (VBMFX).

In a surprising twist following the departure of its founder Bill Gross, Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO) is now no longer the market's largest bond fund. Following two years of capital outflows, the company's massive fund Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTAX) has slipped to second behind Vanguard's index bond fund, Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund (VBMFX). Price Problems: Oil stocks slumped Tuesday, despite a 2% rise in domestic oil prices. Energy investors were selling after activist hedge fund manager David Einhorn said many domestic producers are burning through cash and failing to get better returns for investors. Einhorn targeted Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (NYSE: PXD), Concho Resources Inc. (NYSE: CXO), EOG Resources Inc. (NYSE: EOG), Whiting Petroleum Corp. (NYSE: WLL), and Continental Resources Inc. (NYSE: CLR). "None of them generated excess cash flow, even when oil was at $100 a barrel," Einhorn said. Every company listed saw shares decline on the day.

Oil stocks slumped Tuesday, despite a 2% rise in domestic oil prices. Energy investors were selling after activist hedge fund manager David Einhorn said many domestic producers are burning through cash and failing to get better returns for investors. Einhorn targeted (NYSE: PXD), (NYSE: CXO), (NYSE: EOG), (NYSE: WLL), and (NYSE: CLR). "None of them generated excess cash flow, even when oil was at $100 a barrel," Einhorn said. Every company listed saw shares decline on the day. On Tap Tomorrow: Investors will get their first look at the employment situation Wednesday after ADP reports job creation among private companies. In addition, traders will weigh insight from speeches delivered by two members of the Fed Open Market Committee. Prominent companies reporting earnings tomorrow include Tesla Motors Inc. (Nasdaq: TSLA), Whole Foods Market Inc. (NYSE: WMT), and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (NYSE: BABA).

Stocks to Watch: AAPL, K, CRM, GLNG, GRPN

Stocks to Watch No. 1, AAPL: Shares of Apple Inc. (Nasdaq: AAPL) slipped 2.25% today, dragging down the Nasdaq and erasing the index's two-day gains. This afternoon, CEO Tim Cook announced that sales of the iPhone 6 and new Mac products have had a negative impact on iPad sales.

Shares of (Nasdaq: AAPL) slipped 2.25% today, dragging down the Nasdaq and erasing the index's two-day gains. This afternoon, CEO Tim Cook announced that sales of the iPhone 6 and new Mac products have had a negative impact on iPad sales. Stocks to Watch No. 2, K: Shares of Kellogg Co. (NYSE: K) slipped 1.5% after the world's largest maker of breakfast cereals said its net sales slipped 5% last quarter. The company said a stronger U.S. dollar, falling demand, and steep turnaround costs affected its bottom line. Profits fell by 44% for the quarter.

Shares of (NYSE: K) slipped 1.5% after the world's largest maker of breakfast cereals said its net sales slipped 5% last quarter. The company said a stronger U.S. dollar, falling demand, and steep turnaround costs affected its bottom line. Profits fell by 44% for the quarter. Stocks to Watch No. 3, CRM: Shares of com Inc. (NYSE: CRM) jumped 5.9% on news it could soon be a takeover target of Microsoft Corp. (Nasdaq: MSFT). According to a Bloomberg report, Microsoft is considering a bid for the business software and cloud computing company.

Shares of (NYSE: CRM) jumped 5.9% on news it could soon be a takeover target of (Nasdaq: MSFT). According to a report, Microsoft is considering a bid for the business software and cloud computing company. Stocks to Watch No. 4, GLNG: Shares of Golar LNG Limited (USA) (Nasdaq: GLNG) surged more than 19.5% on news that Ophir Energy had named the firm as its midstream partner for the Fortuna FLNG project in Equatorial Guinea. The company has received a 20-year contract for its GoFLNG Gimi vessel, which is expected to begin commercial operations as soon as 2019.

Shares of (Nasdaq: GLNG) surged more than 19.5% on news that Ophir Energy had named the firm as its midstream partner for the Fortuna FLNG project in Equatorial Guinea. The company has received a 20-year contract for its GoFLNG Gimi vessel, which is expected to begin commercial operations as soon as 2019. Stocks to Watch No. 5, GRPN: Both News Corp. (Nasdaq: NWSA) and Groupon Inc. (Nasdaq: GRPN) will announce their quarterly earnings reports after the closing bell.

What Investors Must Know This Week
====================
Saturday was check-in day at Under Armour All-America Game week, and quite a bit of recruiting information came of it. Here are the important things to know.

LSU could land five five-stars Thursday

Recruiting fans have known throughout the 2014 cycle that LSU's recruiting could be amazing. On Thursday at the Under Armour All-America Game, the rest of the country could see that materialize. Here are five who could decide for the Tigers.

Five-star running back Leonard Fournette confirmed Saturday to multiple outlets that Alabama and LSU are still the two schools in contention for his commitment, which will happen Thursday during the game. Fournette is an incredible prospect, and I compared him to a supercharged Willis McGahee from McGahee's Miami days. Here is what I said about Fournette in Predicting where the top-10 uncommitted recruits will sign.

I've long thought Fournette would head to LSU. The Tigers did not take a running back in the 2013 class, and Fournette would immediately contend for a lot of carries if he picks LSU. The other contender is Alabama. Alabama is one of the only teams which I might pick to sign a top player out of Louisiana at a position of need for LSU, but I don't see that player being Fournette.

Five-star cornerback Tony Brown of Beaumont (Texas) Ozen High School will also decide during the game. His final five is LSU, Alabama, USC, Texas and Ohio State. Here is what I recently said about Brown's likely destination:

LSU recruits very well in Texas. Brown's sister runs track for the Bayou Bengals. Little drama is expected in this one, as Brown has been considered a very strong lean to the Tigers for over a year.

Five-stars Gerald Willis (defensive line) and Speedy Noil (receiver), both of Edna Karr in New Orleans, are also likely to be LSU-bound. Willis is down to Florida and the Bayou Bengals, while Noil is down to LSU and Texas A&M. Of the two, the buzz is more confident about Willis than Noil to LSU, but both are likely headed to Baton Rogue.

The final five-star who could be headed to Baton Rouge is safety Jamal Adams, of Carrollton (Texas) Hebron. Adams is a great player with range and physicality, and he is down to LSU, Florida and Ole Miss, after recently eliminating Texas. Again, the feeling is strong for LSU, although some still believe he could head to Gainesville.

Tide set to pick up five-star cornerback and four-star receiver?

In keeping with the dominance of the SEC West, the Tide could be picking up two elite players Thursday.

As tough as it is to believe, Maryland appears to be out for five-star cornerback Jalen Tabor, of Washington (D.C.) Friendship Academy, as he says Alabama and Arizona are his leaders. Of those, Alabama is the heavy favorite.

"With Alabama, it's just being a part of an NFL type program. With Arizona, I can be an impact player right away. Work hard and be the guy at that program," detailed Tabor to Charles Power.

The Tide badly need cornerbacks and can offer early playing time after a disappointing and uncharacteristic year from Nick Saban's prized position group.

Alabama is also now apparently the leader for Travis Rudolph, the four-star receiver from Palm Beach (Fla.) Cardinal Newman. This is a bit of a surprise, since most believed Rudolph was headed to Florida State,

Rivals100 WR @TravisRudolph5 made it pretty clear to me tonight, "Alabama is my No. 1." He announces Thursday at #UAALLAMERICA Game — Woody Wommack (@RivalsWoody) December 29, 2013

Is Rudolph, a recruit who doesn't enjoy talking with recruiting media all that much in my experience, serious about Alabama being his No. 1? Or is he trying to set up some drama for Thursday?

Lorenzo Carter knows visit dates

Five-star defensive end Lorenzo Carter of Norcross (Ga.) High School, gave a new lead group ($), and Alabama was conspicuously absent after landing fellow five-star defensive end Da'Shawn Hand.

"LSU, Georgia, Florida and Florida State are the schools I'm looking at," Carter said while at check-in for the Under Armour All-America Game. "I can't name a leader. LSU has some ground to make up, but that's as much as I can put it as."

...

"I'm visiting LSU on the 17th, FSU on the 24th and Georgia on the 31st," Carter said.

Florida State is more in the picture than ever for Carter, thanks to the recruiting work by coaches Sal Sunseri and Charles Kelly, but most still feel Georgia is in the best position, with Florida in the second group with the Seminoles and Tigers.

Carter has always planned to be a National Signing Day decision.

Florida back in it for Holley if Bill O'Brien leaves Penn State?

Thomas Holley was open with Luke Stampini about his feelings for Florida if Bill O'Brien were to leave Penn State for an NFL position. Here's what the 5-star defensive tackle from Brooklyn had to say ($):

"It definitely factors in a little bit, because if he leaves that meas a new coach is coming in and you don't know what's going to happen with their program, whether it's going to be firing coaches or bringing new people in," Holley said. "I don't want to go into a program cold, not knowing anybody. So it definitely plays a factor."

More from SB Nation college football:

Follow @SBNationCFBFollow @SBNRecruiting

• Bowl season TV schedule, with scores and recaps along the way

• Modern Hate: Four huge, behind-the-scenes stories on college football rivalries

• The big, beautiful SB Nation All-America Team

• College football news | Bill O’Brien could leave Penn State for NFL

• Long CFB reads | The death of a college football player
====================
No two weeks' worth of blog scheduling, especially when we've been having fun exploring the bizarre developments in science and technology that we have the previous week, would be complete without talking about that strange rock on Mars that in one picture taken by NASA, wasn't there, and then, later, suddenly was there. Indeed, so many of you sent me various versions of this story that not to talk about it would be a kind of error of omission.

I won't even bother trying to summarize this strange story, since the following article does that more than adequately. It does, however, remind me of the line of Shakespeare, which if I may be permitted a slight adjustment, that 'there are more things than are dreamt of in our cosmology." In this case, the "more things" are that rock that wasn't there in one NASA picture taken by the Mars rover Opportunity, and then, a little later, was there:



Mystery Rock 'Appears' in Front of Mars Rover

As the article makes clear, even Never A Straight Answer(NASA) is saying this "rock" looks like a jelly doughnut, which raises the question of just what did Krispy Kreme know, and when did it know it(and when did the Martian franchise open?)

Now when I first heard about this story, the first thing that crossed my mind was a similar episode, a few years back, when a Martian rover had suddenly and inexplicably just "died." Never A Straight Answer told the rest of the world that its solar panels had become so laden with Martian dust that it simply ran out of electrical power, and the little robot had died. Requiascet in pace. But then the little rover inexplicably sprang back into life(so we were told), as its solar panels were suddenly clear of dust. The problem here was, if I recall correctly, that there was no Martian wind storm to blow the dust off, and in any case, even if there was one of those periodical Martian wind storms, it would have blown as much dust back on to the panels as it blew off. Which left the Windex Hypothesis, namely, that some Marvin the Martian had very obligingly cleaned our solar panels for us so we could continue to explore his (uninhabited) planet. A hypothesis about as believable as the dust storm explanation.

Of course, there's always the possibility that Never A Straight Answer simply concocted the "it died of dust" story so they could go roaming about the Martian surface snapping pictures secretly.

This brings is back to the jelly doughnut rock and Krispy Kreme's Incredible Martian Adventure.

Now, I love jelly doughnuts in general and Krispy Kreme's doughnuts in particular, but I'm not travelling all the way to Mars for one, and I doubt NASA did, or is, either, which brings up my personal difficulties with this whole story.

We are faced with three basic logical possibilities:

The rock wasn't really there at all, and Never A Straight Answer and the National Reconnaissance Office photoshopped the picture and put a rock in it, having a bit of social-engineering psyop fun at everyone else's expense, and frankly, given their track record, I personally wouldn't put anything past them, but here, my intuition says otherwise, for reasons I'll get to presently; The rock really wasn't there and someone outside of NASA photoshopped the picture; The rock wasn't really there, and then really was.

Now, when one reads the various versions of the story, it seems apparent that the NASA scientists were as surprised and, reading between the lines a bit, perplexed, as everyone else. It's the why of that perplexity that's important, for they are faced with the last two alternatives: either someone was playing with them(Alternative Two), or, much more significantly, the rock wasn't there, and then it was(Alternative Three, and forgive the pun)...

... and although I can think of a thousand quasi-scientific waffles to explain it (I would not want to be the PhD appearing before the cameras to "explain" the rock by whatever official waffle was selected as the "nothing to see here, move along folks" government explanation), in the final analysis it comes down to a simple though breathtaking proposition: someone put it there (See the Windex Hypothesis).

It's when one contemplates the implications of "someone put it there" that one sees the real source of the perplexity, for that someone perforce has to be either (1) someone else from Planet Earth, and thus to that extent we're looking at some evidence of someone's "secret space program," or (2) someone from somewhere else than Planet Earth placed the rock there, thus reassuring us that they have a bit of a sense of humor.

In my mind's eye, I see that calm scientist with big innocent owl-like eyes, calmly pivoting his head back and forth and blinking slowly like an owl at the assembled press corps, calmly explaining to us that the rock wasn't calmly put there by anyone, not even by another country's secret and unannounced but very calm Martian robot rover, and that current calm thinking is that the jelly doughnut rock may simply have calmly tumbled onto the scene because of "hitherto unknown Martian geophysical activity" or that it was an exceptionally light jelly doughnut, and calmly blew there on some errant but calm Martian breeze, or there's always the calming possibility that the whole thing may be some prankster's innocent and utterly calming practical joke of a rock calmly photoshopped into a picture...

Remain calm everyone, and calmly move along, there's nothing to see here...

It's either that, or the roosters are crowing.

See you on the flip side.
====================
Steven Stamkos (born February 7, 1990) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player and captain for the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League (NHL). Stamkos was the first overall pick in the 2006 OHL Entry Draft, from the Markham Waxers of the Ontario Minor Hockey Association (OMHA).[1] Playing with the Sarnia Sting of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL), he scored 100 goals over two years. After a successful OHL career, Stamkos was selected first overall in the 2008 NHL Entry Draft by the Tampa Bay Lightning. He is a two-time Maurice Richard Trophy winner as the NHL's leading goal-scorer (2010 and 2012), is a two-time NHL Second Team All-Star (2011, 2012) and has been named to six NHL All-Star Games (2011, 2012, 2015, 2016, 2018, 2019).

Early life [ edit ]

Stamkos is of ethnic Macedonian[2] and Scottish descent.[3]

He grew up in Unionville, Ontario, and played for the Markham Waxers in the Eastern AAA Hockey League of the Ontario Minor Hockey Association (OMHA). During one of his seasons with the North York Canadiens, he was teammates with current NHLer P. K. Subban.[4] Stamkos won eight OMHA titles in a row in minor hockey and led his Waxers club to the OHL Cup title in March 2006.[citation needed] He played in the 2003 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with the Markham Waxers.[5]

Stamkos attended Central Park Public School and St. Brother André Catholic High School in Markham, Ontario.[citation needed] After being drafted by the OHL's Sarnia Sting, he attended Northern Collegiate Institute and Vocational School in Sarnia.[citation needed]

Playing career [ edit ]

Sarnia Sting [ edit ]

Following a season with the minor Waxers in which he scored 197 points over 66 games, Stamkos was selected first overall in the 2006 OHL Draft by the Sarnia Sting. Stamkos played with other notable current and former NHLers in his minor and junior hockey career, including Logan Couture, John Tavares, Michael Del Zotto, Cameron Gaunce, Cody Hodgson and P. K. Subban during his minor hockey career in the Greater Toronto Area.[citation needed] Joining the Sting in 2006–07, he recorded 92 points (42 goals and 50 assists) over 63 games as a junior rookie. He was named to the OHL Second All-Rookie Team, ranking behind Sam Gagner at the centre position.[6] Stamkos also won the Bobby Smith Trophy as the OHL's scholastic player of the year for his academic efforts off the ice.

The following season, Stamkos improved to 58 goals and 105 points over 61 games. He was named to the OHL Second All-Star Team, but was later selected to the CHL First All-Star Team, which encompasses all three national major junior leagues. Playing in his NHL draft-eligible season in 2007–08, Stamkos was top-ranked throughout the campaign by the NHL Central Scouting Bureau and International Scouting Services. He also won the CHL's Top Draft Prospect Award.

Tampa Bay Lightning [ edit ]

Stamkos during his rookie season in 2008–09

As the 2008 NHL Entry Draft approached, Stamkos was largely seen as the best available centre. His primary competition for the top overall pick were defencemen Drew Doughty and Zach Bogosian, as well as Russian winger Nikita Filatov. The Tampa Bay Lightning, by virtue of their 2007–08 campaign in which they won an NHL-worst 31 games, owned the first pick.[7][8][9]

As expected, Stamkos was selected first overall by Tampa Bay. On July 29, 2008, he signed a three-year, entry-level contract with the Lightning in which he could earn as much as $8.55 million in performance bonuses.[10] Leading up to the start of the 2008–09 season, the Lightning centred their promotional efforts around Stamkos, including a website with the slogan "Seen Stamkos?"

2008–09 season [ edit ]

Stamkos played in his first NHL game in Prague, Czech Republic, at the start of the 2008–09 season. The Lightning fell to the New York Rangers 2–1 and were eventually swept in Prague. He recorded his first point — a secondary assist — in his eighth game, which was against his hometown Toronto Maple Leafs.[11] Following the game, Stamkos commented that his hometown support was "louder than when the Leafs scored".[12] He scored his first goal the next game against Ryan Miller of the Buffalo Sabres.

After 54 games, Stamkos recorded the first NHL hat-trick of his career, on February 17, 2009. The Lightning held a 3–1 lead midway through the second period on the strength of Stamkos' natural hat-trick, but were still beaten by the visiting Chicago Blackhawks, 5–3. The three goals enabled Stamkos to become the first rookie in Lightning history to score three goals in a game. He also became the second-youngest player in NHL history to record a hat-trick; current record-holder Bobby Carpenter was 18 when he scored three on February 25, 1982.[13][14][15]

Though Stamkos was heavily criticized for his lack of production during the first half of the season, in which he was limited to less than ten minutes of ice time some games (largely due to a dispute amongst then-head coach Barry Melrose and upper management, mainly co-owner Len Barrie on how to approach the development of Stamkos in the NHL),[16] he finished the season with 19 points in his final 20 games.[17] In his rookie season, Stamkos totalled 23 goals and 46 points, as well as a −13 plus-minus rating.

2009–10 season [ edit ]

Prior to the 2009–10 season, Stamkos spent the summer training extensively with former NHL player Gary Roberts, working on adding strength and endurance.[18] Roberts got to know Stamkos in the 2008–09 season, his last in the NHL. He oversaw Stamkos' off-season workouts north of Toronto in Roberts' in-house gym, which is a quick drive from Stamkos' family home in Unionville.[19] Stamkos spoke highly regarding the workouts: "It helped me a lot," Stamkos said. "I learned a lot about what I needed to improve on. There are certain aspects of my game that have improved because of that, and I'll be there again this summer working hard. It definitely gave me that extra jump for this season."[20]

In his second year with the Lightning, Stamkos began to find his range as an NHL sharpshooter and had a breakout season. Playing the bulk of the season on a line with Martin St. Louis and Steve Downie, Stamkos started the 2009–10 campaign with 10 goals in his first 11 games. Through the months of January and February, Stamkos had an 18-game point streak. By the time he turned 20, he was in the top five in the NHL in scoring, challenging the likes of Alexander Ovechkin and Sidney Crosby.[8]

On April 10, Steven scored two goals against Tampa Bay’s rivals, the Florida Panthers, which made him reach 50-goal mark for the season. He ended the season with 51 goals, tied for most in the NHL with Sidney Crosby of the Pittsburgh Penguins; the two shared the Rocket Richard Trophy as the NHL's goal-scoring leaders; he tied Crosby in the final minute of the last game of the season with an empty-net goal. Stamkos became the third-youngest player to score 50 goals in a season, after Wayne Gretzky and Jimmy Carson.[21] His number of goals, 51, was five more than his total points amount in the previous season. Additionally, Stamkos' 44 assists gave him 95 points for the season, good for fifth place in the NHL behind Henrik Sedin, Alexander Ovechkin, Sidney Crosby and Nicklas Bäckström. However, Tampa Bay finished the year with 34 wins and 80 points. After the season, the team's poor record prompted team owner Jeffrey Vinik to terminate Brian Lawton and Rick Tocchet's contracts as general manager and head coach, respectively.

2010–11 season [ edit ]

Following a high-scoring start to the 2010–11 season in which he scored 19 goals in his first 19 games, Stamkos began to attract media attention for challenging the elite "50 goals in 50 games" standard.[22] Wayne Gretzky, who scored 50 goals in a record 39 games in 1981–82, told reporters he thought Stamkos was surrounded by enough talent in Tampa Bay to achieve the feat.[23]

On December 20, 2010, Stamkos scored his 26th goal of the season and the 100th of his career, leading the Lightning past the Carolina Hurricanes 5–1 on a Monday night game. Stamkos had one of three Lightning goals late in the second period that put Tampa Bay ahead 5–1. The centre's milestone goal came in his 194th NHL game.[24]

In January 2011, Stamkos was named by the NHL to play in the NHL All-Star Game. Stamkos was drafted second overall by Team Lidstrom, joining Tampa Bay teammate Martin St. Louis on the squad.[25] However, as the season progressed it became apparent Stamkos would not achieve the 50-in-50 mark. By the 52nd game, he had recorded an NHL-leading 38 goals. Stamkos' latter portion of the season was markedly less successful; he recorded just 7 more goals in the last 30 games.[26] Finishing with 45 goals, he ranked second in NHL scoring, behind Corey Perry of the Anaheim Ducks. His 91 points placed him fifth in the NHL for the second consecutive year.

As the Lightning ranked fifth in the Eastern Conference, Stamkos made his Stanley Cup playoff debut in 2011. On April 23, he scored his first two career playoff goals, as well an assist, in an 8–2 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins. The Lightning advanced to the Eastern Conference Finals against the Boston Bruins. During the deciding Game 7, Stamkos took a slapshot from Bruins defenceman Johnny Boychuk to the face; the impact broke his nose and bloodied his face, forcing him to momentarily leave the game, though he eventually returned wearing a full-visored mask. The Lightning went on to lose the game 1–0, eliminating them from the playoffs. Stamkos scored below his regular season pace with 13 points over 18 games, ranking fifth in team-scoring.

2011–12 season [ edit ]

During the off-season, Stamkos became a restricted free agent on July 1, 2011. Eighteen days later, he re-signed with Tampa Bay on a five-year, $37.5 million contract.[27]

On March 13, 2012, Stamkos scored his 50th goal of the 2011–12 season in a 6–1 win over Boston. In so doing, he became the sixth player in NHL history to record more than one 50-goal season before his 23rd birthday.[28] He then scored his 53rd goal on March 26 against the Philadelphia Flyers, breaking Vincent Lecavalier's team record for goals in a season, set in 2006–07.[29] Five days later, Stamkos set an NHL record by scoring his fifth overtime goal of the regular season, beating Winnipeg Jets goaltender Ondřej Pavelec from the left circle, Stamkos' "trademark" shot during his first three seasons.[30]

On the final day of the regular season, Stamkos recorded his 60th goal in a 4–3 overtime win against Winnipeg, becoming the 20th player in NHL history to achieve the feat and the first since Alexander Ovechkin did so in 2007–08.[31] Adding to his 60 goals, Stamkos recorded 37 assists for 97 points, ranking second in the NHL, 12 behind Evgeni Malkin of the Pittsburgh Penguins, who (along with Henrik Lundqvist) were named the NHL's three finalists for the Hart Memorial Trophy in April. Despite Stamkos' individual success, the Lightning struggled as a team, finishing the season out of the 2012 playoffs at tenth overall in the East.

2012–13 season [ edit ]

During the 2012–13 NHL lockout, Stamkos trained with a handful of other NHL players at Gary Roberts' training academy in Ontario.[32] The lockout also gave Stamkos an opportunity to do things in his hometown of Toronto he normally would not get to do. That included playing in his father's pick-up hockey league every Thursday night, when he and former Lightning forward Steve Downie would mix it up with a group that varied as much in age (22–65) as ability. On playing in his father's pick-up league, Stamkos said, "It was a blast, those guys loved it they don't get a chance to play with NHL guys very often." He added, "It was a lot of fun and something I'll cherish forever."[33]

On March 1, 2013, after play resumed for the shortened 2012–13 season, Stamkos was named the NHL's First Star of the Month for February. He joined Pittsburgh captain Sidney Crosby and Chicago Blackhawks goaltender Ray Emery, who ranked as the Second and Third Stars, respectively. Stamkos had a season-high six-game goal streak and six multi-point outings, and recorded at least 1 point in 11 of 14 games last month. He ended February on an eight-game point streak (seven goals and seven assists).[34]

On March 18, 2013, Stamkos scored his 200th career goal to give the Lightning the victory over the Philadelphia Flyers.[35] Stamkos finished the season with 29 goals, ranking him second in the NHL behind Alexander Ovechkin's NHL-leading 32. He also had 28 assists, which gave him a total of 57 points in 48 games.

2013–14 season [ edit ]

Stamkos with the Lightning in 2014.

On November 11, 2013, Stamkos suffered a broken tibia in a game against the Boston Bruins. He was backchecking on a play late in the second period when he was tied up with Boston defenceman Dougie Hamilton. His left skate appeared to hit the post first before his right leg crashed into it around the shin area. He tried to get up twice before going down to the ice in pain, grabbing his leg just above the ankle. After a brief delay, a stretcher was brought out and he was taken off to loud applause. He was taken to Massachusetts General Hospital.[36][37] Stamkos entered the day tied for the NHL's lead in scoring with Pittsburgh's Sidney Crosby. On November 12, 2013, Stamkos underwent successful surgery in Boston to stabilize a fracture in his right tibia, and he began rehabilitation immediately.[38]

On November 25, 2013, Stamkos made a press appearance where he was seen walking without the use of crutches or a walking boot. He updated the media on his miraculous progress and was hopeful that he could return to the Lightning before commencement of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, which he was widely considered to play in for Canada.[39] Ultimately, he was unable to recover in time to participate in the Olympics. However, he was cleared to play for the Lightning on March 5 – the same day former teammate Martin St. Louis was traded to the New York Rangers – and returned March 6 in a game against the Buffalo Sabres, which the team lost 3–1. Stamkos was named the new captain of the Lightning before the game, replacing the departed St. Louis

On March 24, 2014, Stamkos played in his 400th career NHL game,[40] scoring a power play goal[41] to tie the game at three in an eventual 4–3 shootout loss to the Ottawa Senators.

2014–15 season [ edit ]

On November 11, 2014, Stamkos recorded his 200th career NHL assist in a Lightning 3–2 shootout loss to the Chicago Blackhawks.[42] On December 9, 2014, Stamkos reached another career milestone when he scored his 250th NHL goal. The goal came in a Tampa Bay 5–3 loss to the Washington Capitals, his 17th of the season.[43] On May 24, 2015, during the 2015 playoffs, Stamkos scored a goal in a 2–0 Lightning victory over the New York Rangers, tying him with the Lightning playoff record for goals in consecutive games (4).[44] After the Lightning defeated the Rangers in seven games, Stamkos and the Lightning would move on to the Stanley Cup Final where they were defeated in six games by the eventual Stanley Cup champions Chicago Blackhawks.[45]

2015–16 season [ edit ]

On October 12, 2015, Stamkos recorded his 500th career NHL point off a power play goal against the Boston Bruins.The Lightning would go on to win the game 6–3.[46] With his 500th career point, Stamkos became the third player in Lightning history to record over 500 points. He joined both Martin St. Louis (953) and Vincent Lecavalier (874) as the only players to do so.[47] On October 23, 2015, Stamkos played in his 500th career NHL game in a 4–3 overtime Lightning victory over the Winnipeg Jets.[48] On November 1, 2015, Stamkos moved into second place for the most power play goals in Lightning history with 97. Stamkos moved from a tie with former teammate Martin St. Louis, who had 96 power play goals in his time with the Lightning[49] On January 6, 2016, Stamkos was selected to his fourth All-Star Game, joining teammate Ben Bishop. On February 20, 2016, Stamkos scored his 300th career NHL goal, which came in a 4-2 Lightning win over the Pittsburgh Penguins. Stamkos became the third Lightning player in franchise history to record 300 goals, joining Lecavalier (383) and St. Louis (365). During an post-game interview, Stamkos said of his feat, "[F]irst of all, it means you've around for a while and secondly, I've been fortunate to play with a lot of good players. I've been able to be put in positions to score goals and obviously it was special coming in a big win for our team."[50] On February 26, 2016, Stamkos played in his 553 game in Lightning history, which came in a 4–0 win over the New Jersey Devils. With the game, Stamkos surpassed Brad Richards (552) for fourth all-time in games played for the Lightning.[51] On February 28, 2016, Stamkos recorded his 245 career assist as a member of the Lightning in a 4–1 over the Boston Bruins. The assist moved Stamkos past Václav Prospal (244) to become fourth all-time in assists with the Lightning.[52]

On April 2, 2016, the Lightning announced Stamkos was diagnosed with thoracic outlet syndrome, the same injury that sidelined teammate Andrei Vasilevskiy at the start of the 2015–16 season; it is a condition that is rare among hockey players. Stamkos said he first felt some discomfort in his arm after the game against the Montreal Canadiens. He was scheduled for surgery on the following Monday with Dr. Karl Illig, who performed Vasilevskiy's surgery. Lightning general manager Steve Yzerman said there would be no long-term impact on Stamkos' health or his career. In addition, Yzerman indicated Stamkos recovery time would be between one and three months, but the club would have a better idea in a couple of weeks where he falls within that time frame. Yzerman also said the team's desire is for Stamkos to remain with the organization, which came after a question of whether Stamkos had played his last game in a Lightning uniform.[53] On April 4, 2016, Stamkos had successful surgery at Tampa General Hospital. Stamkos' surgeon said they plan on evaluating him in approximately two weeks and that should clear up his prognosis.[54] On May 26, 2016, Stamkos dressed for Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Finals against the Pittsburgh Penguins, despite still being on blood thinners following surgery. He registered five shot attempts during the game, but the Lightning lost 2–1 and were eliminated from the playoffs.[55]

2016–17 season [ edit ]

On June 29, 2016, two days before Stamkos was set to become an unrestricted free agent, the Lightning signed him to an eight-year, $68 million contract extension with an annual average value of $8.5 million. Stamkos played in 77 games with the Lightning the previous season, scoring 36 goals and 64 points, ranking first in goals and second in points for the team. General manager Steve Yzerman said of the signing, "[W]e are very appreciative of the effort and commitment that Steven and his representatives have exhibited in getting a deal done." He continued, "We are excited to have him as a cornerstone part of the team for the next eight years as we continue in the franchise's ultimate goal of winning another Stanley Cup."[56]

On November 15, 2016, Stamkos fell and left the game, which turned out to be a torn lateral meniscus in his right knee.[57] Steve Yzerman said there was no timetable for his return and that Stamkos would be out "indefinitely".[58] On November 17, 2016, Stamkos headed to Vail, Colorado to undergo arthroscopic knee surgery to repair a lateral meniscus tear[59] The procedure he underwent was estimated to have a four-month recovery window, which would keep Stamkos out of the lineup until at least mid-March. This could translate into Stamkos missing at least 50 games.[60] Later in the day, the Lightning announced Stamkos underwent surgery that day. As predicted, Stamkos was expected to miss approximately four months.[61]

On February 20, 2017, Yzerman provided an update on Stamkos' rehabilitation progress. Yzerman said that Stamkos had begun light skating, and is progressing well. Yzerman further stated that the timeline is still 4–6 months for his recovery. Stamkos would be approaching the four-month recovery window in mid-March. If Stamkos needs the full six months, he would be out for the remainder of the season.[62]

On March 29, 2017, the Lightning head coach, Jon Cooper, said that after the team's upcoming game against the Detroit Red Wings Stamkos would be considered day-to-day. Stamkos said that he was not going to put any dates on his return, however, he did say that he was very pleased and excited with how his knee was feeling.[63] Stamkos did not return to the lineup for the Lightning that season.[64]

2017–18 season [ edit ]

On October 6, 2017, Stamkos played in his first game since injuring his knee the prior season. Stamkos recorded an assist in his return, which resulted in a 5–3 Lightning win over the visiting Florida Panthers.[65] On October 12, Stamkos scored his 112th power play goal, which tied him with Vincent Lecavalier for the most power play goals in franchise history.[66] On October 21, Stamkos scored his 113 power play goal, against Antti Niemi of the Pittsburgh Penguins in a 7–1 Lightning win at the Amalie Arena. The goal moved Stamkos past Lecavalier for most power play goals in franchise history.[67] During that game, Stamkos also recorded his 600th career NHL point.[68][69] On October 26, Stamkos recorded a point in his 11th consecutive game to start the season. In so doing, Stamkos tied Martin St. Louis for the longest season-opening point streak in Lightning history.[70] Stamkos' streak ended the following game.[71] On November 2, Stamkos skated in his 600th career NHL game.[72] The following day, Stamkos was fined $5,000 by the NHL Department of Player Safety for an incident that occurred during the game against the New York Rangers the previous night.[73] On November 17, Stamkos scored four points in a 6–1 Lightning win over the visiting Dallas Stars.[74] This was Stamkos' fourth four-point game, which tied Stamkos with Martin St. Louis and Vincent Lecavalier for the most four-point games in Lightning history.[75]

On January 3, 2018, Stamkos was voted by fans to be the Atlantic Division captain at the 2018 National Hockey League All-Star Game, which was held at the Lightning's home arena, Amalie Arena.[76] This was Stamkos' fifth NHL All-Star Game appearance, which moved him past Vincent Lecavalier for second most NHL All-Star Game appearances by a Lightning player.[77] On January 25, 2018, Stamkos recorded his 300th career NHL assist.[78] The milestone came in a 5–1 Lightning victory over the Philadelphia Flyers away at the Wells Fargo Center.[79] On February 8, Stamkos recorded his 20th goal of the season, which came in a 5–2 win over the visiting Vancouver Canucks. This was Stamkos' ninth 20-goal season in franchise history, which tied him with Martin St. Louis for second-most such seasons in franchise history.[80] On March 3, Stamkos set a new career high with a five-point game in a 7–6 Lightning shootout win over the visiting Flyers.[81] Stamkos became the seventh Lightning player in franchise history to score five points in one game.[82] The five-point game also gave Stamkos the most career regular season games scoring at least four points in franchise history, with 11.[83] On March 21, Stamkos was fined $5,000 for a dangerous trip against Toronto Maple Leafs' defenceman Morgan Rielly, which occurred the previous night at Amalie Arena.[84] On March 30, Stamkos appeared in his 663rd career NHL game, which moved him past Pavel Kubina for third-most games played in Lightning history.[85][86] On May 17, Stamkos recorded his 11th career NHL playoff power-play goal in a 4-2 Lightning win over the Washington Capitals at Capital One Arena. The goal moved Stamkos past St. Louis for most playoff power-play goals in franchise history.[87][88]

2018–19 season [ edit ]

On October 18, 2018, Stamkos recorded his 50th career game winning goal in a 3–1 Lightning victory over the visiting Detroit Red Wings. In so doing, Stamkos became the third player in franchise history to record at least 50 game-winning goals, joining Vincent Lecavalier (60) and Martin St. Louis (64).[89][90] On December 10, Stamkos scored a power play goal to record his 700th career NHL point.[91] He became the third player in franchise history to reach 700 career points.[92] Stamkos was also the first player from the 2008 NHL Entry Draft to record 700 career points.[93] That same night, Stamkos also recorded his ninth career NHL hat-trick, in so doing also surpassing Martin St. Louis (8) for most hat-tricks in Lightning history.[94] Stamkos' record breaking night helped the Lightning beat the visiting New York Rangers 6–3.[95] On December 20, Stamkos played in his 700th career NHL game. He scored in the second period of that game, which moved him past Martin St. Louis for second-most goals in franchise history with 366.[96] The goal came in a 5–4 shootout win against the Calgary Flames at the Scotiabank Saddledome.[97] For December 2018, Stamkos set the Lightning record for most goals in a single calendar month with 14.[98]

On January 2, 2019, Stamkos was named to the 2019 NHL All-Star Game, his sixth All-Star selection, tying him with Martin St. Louis for the most in Lightning history.[99]

Personal life [ edit ]

On June 30, 2017, Stamkos married his long-time girlfriend Sandra Porzio. The ceremony was held in Toronto and was attended by several of his current and former teammates.[100]

On October 26, 2017, the Sarnia Sting announced it was retiring Stamkos' number 91. This was done in a ceremony on January 12, 2018.[101] Stamkos was the first player to have his jersey retired in the 23-year history of the Sting.[102]

International play [ edit ]

Stamkos played for Canada in the 2008 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, where he helped the team win a gold medal. After his rookie season with the Lightning, Stamkos was named to Canada's senior roster for the 2009 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships. Stamkos continued to impress at the 2009 IIHF World Championships, scoring on his first career shift and meshing with fellow Lightning forward Martin St. Louis for seven goals, 11 points and a +9 plus-minus rating en route to a 2–1 loss to Russia in the finals.[103] He was also selected as a reserve by Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics[104] and scored seven goals in Canada's fifth-place finish at the 2013 World Championships. Stamkos was expected to be a major contributor for Canada in Sochi for the 2014 Winter Olympics and was named to the roster, but his injuries sustained prior to the NHL Olympic break, including a broken tibia sustained in November 2013, prevented him from participating.[105]

On March 2, 2016, Hockey Canada named Stamkos to its roster for the 2016 World Cup of Hockey in Toronto. Stamkos won the tournament with Team Canada after a 2-1 win over Team Europe in Game 2 of the best-of-three series. He recorded a goal as well as an assist in the tournament, with a plus-minus rating of +3.[106]

Endorsements [ edit ]

Following his selection into the NHL, Stamkos signed a number of sponsorships, including an athlete’s agreement with Nike.[107][108] He was featured in a web-only Nike commercial called Forget Everything, which was released to coincide with his first game in his hometown of Unionville on October 28, 2008. He has also endorsed Tissot watches.[109] On June 22, 2011, Stamkos was named the cover athlete for the EA Sports' NHL 12 video game.[110] In late 2013, he played the leading role in a web commercial for Coca-Cola Zero named "Shawn Warford's Moment Zero." Most recently, Stamkos signed a multi-year sponsorship with Sport Chek, Canada's largest sports retailer.[111]

Career statistics [ edit ]

Regular season and playoffs [ edit ]

Regular season Playoffs Season Team League GP G A Pts PIM GP G A Pts PIM 2005–06 Markham Waxers OMHA 66 105 92 197 87 — — — — — 2006–07 Sarnia Sting OHL 63 42 50 92 56 4 3 3 6 0 2007–08 Sarnia Sting OHL 61 58 47 105 88 9 11 0 11 20 2008–09 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 79 23 23 46 39 — — — — — 2009–10 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 82 51 44 95 36 — — — — — 2010–11 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 82 45 46 91 74 18 6 7 13 6 2011–12 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 82 60 37 97 66 — — — — — 2012–13 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 48 29 28 57 32 — — — — — 2013–14 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 37 25 15 40 18 4 2 2 4 6 2014–15 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 82 43 29 72 49 26 7 11 18 20 2015–16 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 77 36 28 64 38 1 0 0 0 0 2016–17 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 17 9 11 20 14 — — — — — 2017–18 Tampa Bay Lightning NHL 78 27 59 86 72 17 7 9 16 4 NHL totals 664 348 320 668 440 65 22 29 51 36

International [ edit ]

Year Team Event Result GP G A Pts PIM 2007 Canada U18 U18 4th 6 2 8 10 8 2007 Canada U18 IH18 4th 4 1 4 5 16 2008 Canada WJC 7 1 5 6 4 2009 Canada WC 9 7 4 11 6 2010 Canada WC 7th 5 2 1 3 10 2013 Canada WC 5th 8 7 5 12 6 2016 Canada WCH 6 1 1 2 2 Junior totals 17 4 17 21 28 Senior totals 28 17 11 28 24

Awards and achievements [ edit ]

Records [ edit ]

Single Season [ edit ]

Most goals in a single month by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 14 (2018–19)

Most goals in a single season by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 60 (2011–12)

Most overtime goals in a single season by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 6 (2011–12)

Most power play goals in a single season by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 24 (2009–10)

Most game-winning goals in a single season by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 12 (2011–12)

Most even strength goals in a single season by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 48 (2011–12)

Career Regular Season [ edit ]

Most career regular season games with 4+ points by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 13

Most power play goals by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 138

Most career hat-tricks by a Tampa Bay Lightning player, 9

See also [ edit ]
====================
AS GIANFRANCO Zola eased his black Range Rover up the Fulham Road an hour after the end of Saturday's game, the lads standing in the sunshine outside All Bar One gave an affectionate cheer for the little Sardinian who had just proved that, at 33, his qualities retain every bit of their potency in the context of the Premiership. He had scored a typically cool goal, made another with a marvellously impish piece of skill, and created numerous other openings. These are things he might have done at any time since his arrival at Stamford Bridge almost three years ago, but now the context has changed and alongside Zola are two players whose contributions make the popular prediction of Chelsea's first championship victory since 1955 seem more realistic.

The first of them is Gustavo Poyet. Two years after his arrival at Stamford Bridge, most people still don't know how to pronounce his surname. But the Uruguayan's abilities are so remarkable that the injuries which wrecked his first two seasons in England may reasonably be thought to have denied his club a major honour or two. If he can steer clear of harm for the next nine months, Poyet could have a significant influence on the destiny of the title. Always alert, constantly available, using anticipation to overcome his lack of sheer pace, he is the motor of this Chelsea team, and on Saturday he was rewarded with a pair of goals that summed up his contribution to the team.

The first, which opened the scoring in the 21st minute, was delivered with an unmarked header from Dennis Wise's left-wing corner-kick, a text- book example of the late run from midfield. As Thomas Sorensen, Sunderland's Danish goalkeeper, rushed out, Poyet held his nerve to meet the dipping ball. Almost an hour later, with Chelsea three up and the ground en fete, Poyet administered the final blow, running on to Zola's exquisite short- range chip, adjusting his feet in mid-air while the ball seemed to hang between Steve Bould and Michael Gray,and dispatching it with a crashing volley from 10 yards.

Join Independent Minds For exclusive articles, events and an advertising-free read for just £5.99 €6.99 $9.99 a month Get the best of The Independent With an Independent Minds subscription for just £5.99 €6.99 $9.99 a month Get the best of The Independent Without the ads – for just £5.99 €6.99 $9.99 a month

That move had been set up by a perceptive long pass to Zola from Didier Deschamps, whose Chelsea debut was convincing enough to mean France's captain may turn out to be the final piece in Gianluca Vialli's expensive jigsaw. Patrolling the space in front of his international colleagues, Marcel Desailly and Franck Leboeuf, in the first half, Deschamps performed his customary duties of interdiction and distribution with unfussy expertise. But as Sunderland's poverty of expression became apparent, he was able to show us another side of his game, sidestepping opponents with a elegant flourish and, in the second half, positioning himself 10 yards further forward in order to exert a more creative influence on Chelsea's patterns.

In the closing minutes of the first half he and Zola both made openings for Chris Sutton, with passes measured to send the debutant clear of a flat rearguard in the inside-right channel. Sutton is 26 years old, has a Premiership winners' medal to show for his stay at Blackburn, and cost Chelsea pounds 10m. But he reacted to these golden opportunities with astonishing diffidence, slowing up and shooting wide from the first pass and falling over the ball as he tried to exploit the second chance.

Afterwards Vialli was all sympathy and diplomacy. "I always had problems when I started with a new club," the Chelsea manger said. "It's too easy otherwise. You go, you score, you become a hero straight away. It's better to work your socks off." And, he added, he judged his strikers by criteria other than the number of goals they scored. "If you go on the pitch just thinking about scoring goals, you forget about the other important things. Chris worked hard for the team and he made space for his team mates. He can do better. He knows that and we know that."

It might also be pointed out that Tore Andre Flo, who replaced Sutton with20 minutes to go, missed two sitters. In between them, however, the Norwegian scored Chelsea's third goal with a 78th-minute header from Dan Petrescu, inaugurating a finale in which the home team ran riot and might have doubled their score.

Not all their opponents will react with the bewilderment shown by Sunderland, who looked as if they swallowed their own publicity and whose midfield badly needs the cohesion that Stefan Schwarz has been bought to provide. But as Zola enjoyed his own little triumphal procession down the sunlit Fulham Road, the lads on the pavement were starting to think about next spring, and a full-scale version.

Goals: Poyet (20) 1-0; Zola (32) 2-0; Flo (77) 3-0; Poyet (78) 4-0.

Chelsea (4-1-3-2): De Goey; Ferrer, Desailly, Leboeuf, Le Saux; Deschamps; Petrescu (Di Matteo, 86), Poyet (Babayaro, 79), Wise; Sutton (Flo, 73), Zola. Substitutes not used: Hogh, Hitchcock (gk).

Sunderland (4-4-2): Sorensen; Makin, Butler, Bould, Gray; Summerbee, Rae, Ball (Fredgaard, 60), Lumsdon (McCann, h-t); Quinn, Phillips. Substitutes not used: Helmer, Dichio, Marriott (gk).

Referee: M Riley (Leeds). Bookings: Chelsea Le Saux. Sunderland: Rae, Makin, Quinn.

Man of the match: Poyet.

Attendance: 34,831.

Keep up to date with all the latest news with expert comment and analysis from our award-winning writers
====================
The subtitle of this book is “The Duchess Who Played Politics in the Age of Joan of Arc, 1397-1471”. I have to confess, I read this book a few years ago while doing some research. Recently, in reading the four volume series of books on the Valois Dukes of Burgundy by Richard Vaughan, I completed the one on Philip the Good and felt like I needed to revisit the life of Isabel in the context of her husband’s life and decided to re-read it.

It is unfortunate there is no definitive biography of Isabel and this book is not meant to be an academic recounting of Isabel’s life. It is a combination of historical fact with a bit of fiction. This is really unfortunate as the author has an academic background and is the former editor of three academic journals and could obviously have done better. Despite the unorthodox style, I found the book enjoyable because Taylor highlights the personal side of Isabel’s life.

Isabel is somewhat exceptional for a medieval woman of royalty. She was the daughter of King John I of Portugal, the first king of the House of Aviz. Her mother was Philippa, the eldest daughter of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, and son of King Edward III of England. Although there were many possible marriages discussed for her, she didn’t marry until she was in her early thirties. She would be the third wife of Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy. Philip married her for her royal birth, ties to England and Portugal and for her ability to have children.

Isabel fulfilled her childbearing duty and would have three sons, of which only one, Charles, survived. However, Philip got a lot more than he bargained for with Isabel. She was highly intelligent. Her parents had educated her along with her numerous brothers and she was especially adept at accounting and negotiating and arbitration. These excellent skills were put to good use by Philip. He allowed her to negotiate peace and trade treaties for the duration of their marriage. Isabel’s English and Portuguese background would influence her efforts at mediation and facilitate good relations between Burgundy, England and France. Her greatest accomplishment may have been the triumphant marriage of her son Charles with the sister of King Edward IV of England, Margaret of York.

Taylor’s narrative in this book emphasizes Isabel’s accomplishments. There are many twists and turns to this era in Burgundian history, the most significant being the fact that Isabel’s husband sent her on many missions while working behind her back to make alliances and war with France. It’s hard to imagine what kind of tension this brought to Isabel’s marriage but it certainly makes an appealing story. The book is not written in chronological order. There are some footnotes which appear at the end of each chapter but there is no bibliography which is disappointing. Although this is an interesting read, a well written and researched biography remains to be written about this fascinating medieval princess.
====================
Over the past fortnight, five prestigious institutions in the U.K. have banned Robin Thicke’s saucy R&B ditty Blurred Lines from playing anywhere on their premises, on the basis that its overly sexual lyrics might encourage bad behaviour in men.

Which institutions, I hear you ask? Stuffy churches, perhaps, aghast that a song would promote casual sex? Islamic groups, maybe, believing that lines like “I know you want it” are not suitable for young ears, especially female ones? Or maybe it was killjoy police forces, not exactly renowned for their ability to chill out, which forbade the playing of Thicke’s tune?

Nope, it was student unions. Five student representative bodies—at the Universities of Edinburgh, West Scotland, Leeds, Derby and Kingston—have banned Blurred Lines in all the premises in which they have dominion, including student bars and dancehalls, on the basis that it “undermines and degrades women” and “promotes an unhealthy attitude toward sex and consent”.

Once upon a time, students’ political leaders kicked against authoritarianism; now they enforce it.

In the space of a generation, they’ve gone from demanding the right of young adults on campus to listen to, dance to, read and watch what they want, to placing a paternalistic hand over students’ ears and eyes lest they hear something a bit raunchy.

Blurred Lines, a massive global hit sung by Thicke with Pharrell Williams and the rapper T.I., has been the subject of controversy since it was released in March. The modern breed of sexless, censorious feminist has been particularly vocal in slamming both the song and its accompanying video, which features the three singers, fully clothed, cavorting with some very attractive models wearing only flesh-colored thongs. Blurred Lines is “creepy” and “a bit rapey,” says one observer.

Now, British student unions have taken this shrill reaction to what is just a pretty good and perfectly harmless pop song to its logical conclusion. The student union at Edinburgh kicked things off on 12 September by banning Blurred Lines from every student building. It did this as part of its policy to “End Rape Culture and Lad Banter” on campus.

It’s hard to work out what is most shocking about the Edinburgh union’s ban-happy antics: the fact that it thinks nothing of behaving like a nun at a convent-school disco and switching off any song that mentions the sex act, or the fact that it has an actual policy to “end lad banter”—that is, to prevent young men from speaking in a certain gruff, licentious fashion. Quite when student leaders switched from fighting for students to fighting against them, and against their apparently demonic thought and speech patterns, is a mystery.

The Edinburgh union said Blurred Lines “trivializes rape,” and in doing so it contributes to “a culturally permissible attitude to rape.” Really? Are the minds of male students so malleable, so putty-like, that a single encounter with lyrics like “You’re an animal, baby, it’s in your nature” and “Let me liberate you” might be enough to push them towards committing rape?

Behind the Edinburgh union’s pseudo-radical, feminism-justified banning of Blurred Lines there lurks the old, highly discredited spectre of media effects theory—the idea that media images and words pollute people’s minds and make them behave in all sorts of sordid and even criminal ways. Just as Britain’s stuffy old censors of the pre-1960s period refused to let the public read D.H. Lawrence’s Lady Chatterley’s Lover on the basis that it might make them immoral and depraved, so today’s youthful, rosy-cheeked student censors refuse to allow their charges to hear Blurred Lines on the basis that it could turn them bestial.

The instinct behind the Edinburgh union’s banning of Blurred Lines is the same one that has motored every act of censorship in history: a paternalistic urge to keep the little people’s base motives in check by protecting them from sexy, blasphemous, or shocking imagery.

Other student unions have followed Edinburgh’s authoritarian lead. The union at Leeds University banned Blurred Lines on the basis that it “degrades women.” Kingston University in London has banned it due to “the disrespectful nature of the lyrics.” If universities only play songs with respectful lyrics, what will happen to gangsta rap, the Sex Pistols, the Velvet Underground, death metal, or any other musical genre that broaches the old chestnuts of sex, drugs and rock’n’roll?

Student leaders’ intolerant war on Blurred Lines fits a depressing pattern in modern British university life. In the UK, as in other parts of the Western world, students have become extraordinarily censorious in recent years, seeking to obliterate from campuses any song, book, newspaper or person that has the temerity to offend their sensibilities.

Various British student unions have banned Eminem’s songs (they’re homophobic and misogynistic, apparently); the tabloid newspaper, The Sun (because it has a naked woman on Page 3, and men and women over the age of 18 can’t possibly be exposed to tits); and right-wing or Zionist speakers—numerous unions have “No Platform” policies, which means they forbid inviting far-right or Zionist spokespeople to take part in debates on campus.

We seem to have nurtured a spectacularly narcissistic generation, many of whom seem truly to believe that it is perfectly natural and reasonable to demand the squishing of anything that offends them. This is the grisly end product of the self-esteem culture: having educated young people to believe that their self-esteem is sacrosanct, and that anything which dents it is evil, we cannot now be surprised that they believe they have the right to erect a moral, censorship-powered forcefield around themselves and their peers in order to ward off any idea or image or song that makes them feel bad.

Universities, or at least some of them, were once hotbeds of radicalism, sites of feverish and excitable political debate in which any idea was permissible, especially if it railed against adult society. Not now. Today, universities in Britain and elsewhere have become breeding grounds for nanny staters and nudgers, training courses for the blue pen-wielding authoritarians of the future. That’s the most worrying thing about the student reps currently bashing Blurred Lines—one day, these joyless, casually censorious, fun-allergic misanthropes will be running Britain.
====================
Donald Trump, economic genius. Photo: Molly Riley - Pool/Getty Images

Donald Trump has now spent enough time listening to Republican economic advisers that he can give an interview to The Economist in which he attempts to regurgitate the ideas that have been fed him. At various points in the interview, Trump tries and fails to think of the word “reciprocity.” (“We need reciprocality in terms of our trade deals,” he asserts.) Asked to flesh out his vision for a fair NAFTA in more detail, he can only come up with synonyms for “big”:

It sounds like you’re imagining a pretty big renegotiation of NAFTA. What would a fair NAFTA look like?



Big isn’t a good enough word. Massive.



Huge?



It’s got to be. It’s got to be.

The interview really starts to go downhill when Trump explains his tax plan:

Another part of your overall plan, the tax reform plan. Is it OK if that tax plan increases the deficit? Ronald Reagan’s tax reform didn’t.



Well, it actually did. But, but it’s called priming the pump.

It is in fact well known among economists and policy experts that the 1986 Tax Reform Act was designed to be revenue neutral. The interviewer lets this go and continues:

But beyond that it’s OK if the tax plan increases the deficit?



It is OK, because it won’t increase it for long. You may have two years where you’ll … you understand the expression “prime the pump”?



Yes.



We have to prime the pump.



It’s very Keynesian.



We’re the highest-taxed nation in the world. Have you heard that expression before, for this particular type of an event?



Priming the pump?



Yeah, have you heard it?



Yes.



Have you heard that expression used before? Because I haven’t heard it. I mean, I just … I came up with it a couple of days ago and I thought it was good. It’s what you have to do.



It’s …



Yeah, what you have to do is you have to put something in before you can get something out.

A few facts. First, the United States is not “the highest-taxed nation in the world.” It is one of the lowest-taxed nations in the OECD:

Second, Trump did not invent the phrase “prime the pump.” It has been around since at least the 1930s and is extremely familiar to economists. Nor does it describe his plan. Priming the pump refers to a program of temporary fiscal stimulus to inject demand into an economy stuck with high unemployment. Trump is instead proposing to permanently increase the deficit in an economy with low unemployment. Telling The Economist you invented the phrase “priming the pump,” to describe a plan that does not prime the pump, is a bit like sitting down with Car and Driver, pointing to the steering wheel on your car and asking if they have ever heard of a little word you just came up with called “hubcap.”

Here’s the evidence that Donald Trump actually hates his job.
====================
I realized that once I became a sexagenarian, my body morphed into an unseeable object, a mere biological container nestling vital organs to keep me alive. My art has always dealt with the nude — quite often my own body, naked with blemishes (which were coming on stronger as the years passed) and shifting into newly settled configurations. At the end of my sixth decade, feeling vibrant, alive with intellectual curiosity, making videos, writing, and painting what I consider some of my finest works, I decided to celebrate and literally embrace my chassis, including the scars that defined life’s odyssey.

In 1995 I got my first computer and seized on the diverse possibilities that this new technology offered. Most important, a friend taught me how to manipulate photographs in Photoshop, which turned out to be an invaluable tool for future ways to communicate. I began with a series of photographs titled “I Can Still Dance” — a self-portrait depicting my obsession with the passing of time as I “virtually” wove my body in and out of New York’s and New Jersey’s streets, stores, parks and buildings. In these portraits, the personal and the political are interlaced: they involve risk through a literal baring of self, expose the vulnerabilities of aging, and explore with humor and pathos how I as an older woman exist and navigate as unnoticeable in an urban environment.

To bypass Facebook’s policies on nudity, the artist self-censored her work, for example, seen here, “Grace Joins Abakanowicz’ Alterations” (Archival Pigment Print, 2015).

I joined Facebook in 2005 shortly after it was first launched, and became “Friends” with a widening group of “Like”-minded artists. Dialogues on style, meaning, technique, branding, and commercialization were discussed with people from all over the globe — there being no geographical boundaries as fresh ideas penetrated my hermetic solitary working cosmos. Images were exchanged and suddenly a person who had just existed as a name of a stranger, took on a fresh presence once I beheld their visuals. Into this online neighborhood, I decided to post my self-portraits and quickly got a notification from Facebook’s Standards Policy on Nudity to desist. Intimidated, I devised a strategy of bypassing their provincially narrow definition of nudity and decided to self-censor by covering my breasts (particularly nipples) and genitalia with black rectangles — aesthetically a distraction, but crucial to being permitted to stay in the Facebook community. Since that time, I have feared Facebook’s imposing anonymous “watchers,” and whenever I conceive of a new composite photograph, I sense their hot sighs on my neck, ever vigilant.

I have been fortunate to have two comprehensive articles written by Suzanne Russell in Women’s Voices For Change, a magazine whose mission focuses on women over 40 celebrating “. . . the power and wisdom of women in the second half of life.” The comments that Women’s Voices readers wrote, like the one below, gave me added impetus to freely make art without the restrictions and hypocrisy that are often evident on social media sites:
====================
The massive central door in the side of Noah’s Ark was opened for the first crowd of curious townsfolk to behold the wonder. Of course, it’s only a replica of the biblical Ark , built by Dutch Creationist Johan Huibers as a testament to his faith in the literal truth of the Bible. The ark is 150 cubits long, 30 cubits high and 20 cubits wide.

That’s two-thirds the length of a football field and as high as a three-story house. Life-size models of giraffes, elephants, lions, crocodiles, zebras, bison and other animals greet visitors as they arrive in the main hold. A contractor by trade, Huibers built the ark of cedar and pine. Biblical scholars debate exactly what the wood used by Noah would have been. Huibers did the work mostly with his own hands, using modern tools and with occasional help from his son Roy. Construction began in May 2005. On the uncovered top deck – not quite ready in time for the opening – will come a petting zoo, with baby lambs and chickens, and goats, and one camel. Visitors on the first day were stunned. ‘It’s past comprehension’, said Mary Louise Starosciak, who happened to be bicycling by with her husband while on vacation when they saw the ark looming over the local landscape. ‘I know the story of Noah, but I had no idea the boat would have been so big.’ There is enough space near the keel for a 50-seat film theater where kids can watch a video that tells the story of Noah and his ark. Huibers, a Christian man, said he hopes the project will renew interest in Christianity in the Netherlands, where church going has fallen dramatically in the past 50 years.

Advertisements
====================
Evolve

To succeed at this asymmetrical competitive game, players will need both cunning and nerves of steel. In the game’s tense multiplayer matches, teams of four hunters stalk through alien jungles in search of their adversary, a fifth player who controls a hulking, growing monster with its own objectives.

Gameplay

Created by the makers of the Left 4 Dead series, Evolve boasts similarly balanced yet unpredictable matches that necessitate teamwork and careful planning. Hunters must master their character’s unique abilities and class skills in order to entrap and damage their foe, while the monster must use melee, ranged, or stealth attacks to divide and conquer the opposing force.

Environment

Hunts take place on the distant planet Shear, where human characters must contend not only with the player-controlled monster but also deadly plants and wandering beasts.

Multiplayer

Diverse modes help mix up the game’s central 4v1 hunts, with a Nest mode where the monster must protect its eggs, a Rescue mode where the hunters race to save stranded colonists from the monster, and a Defend mode where players work to keep the monster from reaching their ship’s power generators.

Reviews

“It’s rare for a big multiplayer game like Evolve to feel so considered and intelligent.” - IGN

“Evolve’s matchups offer a lot of replayability and competitive thrills, and I can see myself returning to it consistently in the following months.” - Game Informer

Specifics

Developer: Turtle Rock Studios

System: Xbox One or PS4

For questions pertaining to this deal, click the Ask a Question button below. For post-purchase inquiries, please contact Groupon customer support.



Goods sold by Groupon Goods. View the Groupon Goods FAQ to learn more.
====================
Why is politically correct language so toxic? Please examine how the issue of rape is whitewashed by online magazine Ebony, in the following feminist article, “5 Ways We Can Teach Men Not to Rape.”

1. Teach young men about legal consent: Legal consent tops my list for a reason. Without it, sexual contact with someone is rape…whether you intended to rape or not. A woman who is drunk, unconscious or sleeping cannot give legal consent. And it’s not about a woman simply saying “no,” it’s really about making certain she’s saying yes!

The idea of erotic resistance and a woman’s tendency to resist sex in general is obviously ignored in favor of the politically correct idea that consent is some kind of black and white online submit form where it is always obvious that if she doesn’t want sex, she really doesn’t want sex.

Never mind the fact that rapists will never ask for consent, or that successful womanizers understand and know how to overcome last minute objections to closing the deal, because rape isn’t the actual issue here – instead it is training men how to give more power to women. If men are involuntarily celibate because of the tension killing, erotically sterile, and safe beta mode of asking permission to rip the clothes off a woman in your room – well, that’s not a woman’s problem, now is it?

2. Teach young men to see women’s humanity, instead of seeing them as sexual objects for male pleasure: There is a reason why women are shamed into silence and why teenage boys in Steubenville, Ohio are caught on camera laughing about gang raping an unconscious girl at a party. The dehumanization of women spans all areas of American life.

Oh, the humanity!

Quick question – if a woman is driving drunk and crashes into someone else, how come defense attorney’s cannot use the defense of “she was drunk and therefore could not consent to crashing her car?”

And what about men’s humanity? If the girl is drunk and the man is drunk, why is it only the girl who is unable to give consent?

But see, there’s no need for asking tough questions, because the goal of political whitewashing is to interpret events in such a way it fits a political agenda, which is, in this case, of men oppressing women. For example, in the Ohio story – she wasn’t gang raped. She was fingered without consent by boys a little less drunk than she was. Ooops – that’s too complicated. Let’s just call it a gang rape and preach about woman’s humanity.

Remember – you’re not human until you’re blacked-out drunk and pissing all over your friend’s carpet.

The young men in Steubenville aren’t monsters. They did something monstrous and criminal but perhaps we should begin to stop repeating the notion that “criminals” are the ones raping 1 in 5 women. No, it’s our husbands, boyfriends, acquaintances, relatives, and friends and they rape because they are not taught to see women as full autonomous human.

1 in 5 women are raped? Yeah… I’ll let the above paragraph speak for itself.

Loading...

3. Teach young men how to express healthy masculinity: “The question that’s being asked about what women can do to prevent violence against them is the wrong question. It’s not what can a woman say or do that can prevent being attacked. We need to turn that paradigm upside down. We need to focus on the messages that men are getting and about how they relate to women.

I have no idea what the hell healthy masculinity is, but I’m pretty sure it doesn’t involve being afraid of making sexual advances on a woman lest she claims you raped her. In fact, I have no idea what the above paragraph says, but rest assured that this politically correct language is being foisted upon hundreds of thousands of college students every year in America.

4. Teach young men to believe women and girls who come forward: The vast majority of women do not report their rapes to the police and many more only tell one or two people in confidence. That is a result of our proclivity towards victim blaming. What were you wearing? How much did you drink? Why were you there in the first place? When we hear about a rape case in the news or when we hear about one in our own lives, the first reaction should be to believe and support the accuser.

Because females never lie, right? And even if she was lying, it’s not a big deal, right?

Teenager Falsely Accused of Rape Beaten to Death by Gang:

Luke Harwood, 18, was punched and kicked to death by the gang, who planned to slice off his fingers and pull out his teeth so the body could not be identified. The victim, who was 5ft 7ins tall and weight just seven stone, had the misfortune to move into a council house when Alice Hall, who made the false allegation, was there, the Old Bailey heard. […] Mr Denison said two years before Alice Hall had made a complaint to the police about the victim. “She initially claimed that he had raped her. “But when what she was saying was examined more closely by the police it was clear that she was not in fact saying he had raped her and no further action was taken.”
====================
Dec 9, 2016 - DeeJ

This week at Bungie we revealed The Dawning.





Since our last blast of weekly blog fodder, we’ve said much about what is afoot in Destiny. It was a great way to spend a weekend. We met thousands of awesome players and sent them roaring around two new racetracks. We showed you how the Guardians will celebrate a season of giving and healthy competition. We breathed deep the magical air of Anaheim, California.













Sparrow Racing is making a comeback, under the direction of Amanda Holliday. Strikes are about to become a scored event, presided over by Commander Zavala. Some of those scored Strikes have been redesigned to feature SIVA infestations. This event will bestow upon you many gifts. There are new gear sets, new Exotics Weapons, and an old favorite to help you break the winter ice. Those are just a few of the new seasonal updates you’ll find in the Tower.





All of this is wrapped up and packaged in a new Record Book. Got Rise of Iron? It will be waiting for you. Don’t got Rise of Iron? It’s not too late to join Lord Saladin on his adventure to avenge the Iron Lords.





The games begin on December 13th. They end on January 3rd. Let’s race toward the finish line of 2016 together, and welcome 2017 with some striking new ways to upgrade our characters.





On Tuesday, it will be time to let it snow.









Hunt THIS





The last time we turned the Crucible over to Amanda Holliday, our old friends at Rooster Teeth had a grand old time trading paint and talking trash. Next week, we’ll put a Bounty on our own heads and invite them to come and claim it – if they can. This is a race, but it’s also a battle. This is challenge. This is a duel.













Bungie Bounty Sparrow Racing League Rooster Teeth vs. Bungie Wednesday, December 14th 10AM Pacific













Three of their racers will battle three of ours. The first Sparrow to cross the finish line first will claim victory for their team. You’ll be invited to watch on Twitch





There will be collisions. There will be blood. May the fastest and most devious team win!









Decorations





Did we mention new gear for The Dawning? Bungie Artists have been forging new armor behind the scenes to help you equip something a little more festive. Now that you’ve caught a glimpse of the new gear, we can show you high-resolution pixels from the drawing board.





Click on the images you’ll find below to visit their portfolios, and see more of their work.





Joseph Cross. These new gear sets were inspired by helmet concepts originally designed by









Ian McIntosh has visions of new wares for your wish list, be you a Warlock... has visions of new wares for your wish list, be you a...









…or a Hunter.









What you won’t find in Ian’s portfolio is what we created for the Titan.









For the Titan set of armor, we relied on our new friends at High Moon Studios. Specifically, you Titans will have Priscilla Landerer to credit for your new gear. Thanks for the team effort, High Moon. We’re looking forward to a bright future of further collaboration.





And, we’re looking forward to seeing the rest of you in your new Dawning armor.









Passing Secret Notes in Class





Like every deployment of new content, an update like The Dawning gets a number. This one is Update 2.5.0. It’s another step in the path of evolution













When we update the game, your friendly neighborhood Community Manager works with the development team to collect, collate, and post Patch Notes that document all changes and new features. Today, Cozmo wanted to share with you a preview of some of those bullet points.





Cozmo: One of the things I love about my job is looking for good feedback on the Internet and passing it along to the team. It’s always a great moment when we can deliver solutions for some of the things you’ve been talking about. There will be plenty to read on Tuesday, but here are some things I’m excited to talk about right now.





Fixed an issue where some players did not receive the Student of History Trophy/Achievement or Sigil of the Young Wolf Emblem for attuning all of the Rise of Iron Artifacts







The completionist among you will be happy to hear that we have fixed the issue keeping you from your final Trophy/Achievement in Rise of Iron. If you haven’t already attuned all of the ROI Artifacts, now is the perfect chance to go do it as you will also get the Sigil of the Young Wolf Emblem





Skeleton Keys have been adjusted:



Skeleton Keys drop rates have been slightly increased in the SIVA Crisis playlist, SIVA Crisis Heroic playlist, and weekly Nightfall



Players will now receive a Skeleton Key for their first account Nightfall clear per week





Everyone has been on the hunt for Skeleton Keys to get their hands on that sweet Strike specific loot. We’re increasing your chances to see them drop and guaranteeing you 1 per account for your first Nightfall clear every week.





Characters who are level 40 will now automatically convert Uncommon Engrams(Green) to Weapon and Armor Materials on pickup







If you haven’t already heard, we’re going to save you some time by automatically converting Uncommon Engrams to materials. Once you are level 40, you don’t have much use for Greens. We’re going to go ahead and dismantle them on pickup for you after you reach max level.





Brother Vance now offers materials exchange for Passage Coins and Motes of Light







A lot of Guardians have found themselves short on Passage Coins when Trials of Osiris goes live. Brother Vance will now offer them in exchange for Motes of Light.





Legendary Weapons obtained from the Gunsmith's Rank 2 Quest can now be repurchased from the Gunsmith







The Gunsmith will now be very popular with Guardians who dismantled their Stillpiercer, Immobius, or Susanoo. You can repurchase these weapons from him for Legendary Marks.









All of this and more will be available for download on Tuesday, December 13th, at 10AM Pacific . Once you’ve installed the Update, you’ll be cleared for landing in the Tower, where you can begin your experience with The Dawning.









Guided Support













As new content flows from us to you, Destiny Player Support is always at the ready to provide the information you need and answer the questions you may have.





This is their report.





Nightfall Activity Availability: Restricted Access on Tuesday, December 13th In preparation for The Dawning, Nightfall Activities will be unavailable to players on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One from 1:00 AM Pacific (9:00 UTC) through the release of Destiny Update 2.5.0 on Dec. 13th, 2016. This restriction has been put in place to prevent players from entering a state where changes to Skeleton Key Rewards introduced in Update 2.5.0 would not be available until the following Weekly Reset.

Honeydew. Destiny Player Support will be posting reminders through Attempting to launch a Nightfall Activity will result in Error Code:. Destiny Player Support will be posting reminders through @BungieHelp throughout the weekend, with an additional in-game message to communicate this information.

Players will regain access immediately after logging into Destiny after accepting Update 2.5.0.

Destiny: Rise of Iron Known Issues Once Destiny Update 2.5.0 has been released, the Destiny: Rise of Iron Known Issues thread will be updated to reflect all resolved issues. The following issues will not be addressed by Update 2.5.0. Local Network Fireteam Issues



SIVA Key Fragments missing from Character Inventory



We are continuing to investigate these issues, and are looking into options to address them with a future Destiny Update. If you are encountering either of these issues, please post a report to the #Help forum.

With Finesse and Speed With the upcoming return of SRL, the “With Finesse and Speed” Quest must be completed by eligible PlayStation 4 players prior to accepting Update 2.5.0 to earn the EV-42 NIGHTSTEED Sparrow. If this Quest is not completed by this time, it will be automatically removed from the Progress tab of the Character Inventory.

Stay tuned to help.bungie.net for all help articles related to the Dawning, and the return of SRL.









Center of the Maze









When he’s not gathering up Patch Notes, your Community Manager is watching a lot of videos. It’s time to see which ones he liked the best.





Cozmo: More movies are locked and loaded. : More movies are locked and loaded. Emblems are ready to be delivered to the victors. Let’s do this thing. This week, we have some great Montages lined up for you, as well as an impressive Sparrow feat just before the races begin. As always, if you would like your shot at winning MOTW, the Creations page is open for business.

Here are this week’s winners.





Movie of the Week: Sparrow to Aksis









Honorable Mention: Rage and Fury









Honorable Mention: Timeless













There’s nothing left to say before this next event dawns. We’ll see you at the startling line. We’ll see you in those Strikes.





If we saw you at PSX, thanks for making that show awesome. It was great to hear your stories and watch you boost through the gates. Let's do it again next week.




====================
Context. Toxicity from recreational substances marketed for other purposes is a well-documented clinical entity. We present two cases of phenibut toxicity procured via the internet. Case Details. A 20-year-old female presented to the emergency department (ED) having used phenibut the prior day. The main finding was a decreased level of consciousness, however when roused she became delirious. Supportive care only was required with no specific intervention. The patient made a full recovery over a 24-hour period and admitted to use of phenibut purchased online. Plasma phenibut concentration was 29.7 μg/ml. A 38-year-old male presented to ED with an agitated delirium. The prior evening he had used tetrahydrocannabinol or THC, alcohol and phenibut, the latter purchased via the internet. His behavioural state had a suboptimal response to parenteral sedation. He was subsequently intubated for airway protection in the context of ongoing sedation to optimally manage his behavioural state. Post extubation the next morning he admitted using phenibut. Plasma phenibut concentration was 36.5 μg/ml. Discussion. Altered mental status was the predominant manifestation of phenibut toxicity in these cases. Clinicians to be aware of how phenibut toxicity may present as the internet has widened access to such substances.
====================
The teams for the 2017 Super Bowl are set, as the New England Patriots were crowned AFC Champions for their victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers, shortly after the Atlanta Falcons claimed the title of NFC Champions in a convincing win against the Green Bay Packers. While plenty predicted that the Patriots would make it to yet another Super Bowl this year, the rise of the Falcons was not one that was easily foreseen. Regardless, Atlanta boasts a great roster and plenty of potential to put up a fight, which is why the Vegas oddsmakers see this as a close game on paper. They have set the spread with New England installed as a slight, three-point favorite to open betting with.

With the Super Bowl being by far the most bet single event of the year on a regular basis, the oddsmakers are under a lot of pressure to get it right. There will be tons of money coming in, and lines will likely shift in one direction or another due to this. Largely due to their ability to move the line to balance out the action, Vegas has won money on 24 out of 26 Super Bowls since the statistics started being tracked by the Nevada Gaming Control back in 1991. Considering the countless prop bets and other ways to bet on a Super Bowl, there is a good chance that they’ll be on the right side of Super Bowl LI as well.

Also on Forbes:

The books are sure to do well with their Super Bowl bets, but many casual bettors cannot say the same. Before blindly betting on the Falcons or Patriots, or the over or the under, it’s worth it to consult with an expert on the subject. Fortunately, The Sports Geek—one of the top handicappers in the industry—has been kind enough to provide his take and analysis on the recently released Super Bowl odds. Before getting to his thoughts, here is a quick look the kick-off time, television information, odds and more for Super Bowl 51.

Odds courtesy of TheSportsGeek.com

Date Time (EST) TV Away Home Point Spread Total Sun, Feb. 5 6:05 PM FOX NE ATL NE -3 58.5

The Sports Geek’s Take: The sportsbooks released the initial Super Bowl 51 lines (or betting odds) during the second half of a lopsided 2017 AFC Championship Game, after it became clear that the Patriots would be advancing to Super Bowl 51. New England was installed as three-point favorites over the Falcons, with the game total being set between 58 and 58.5, depending on the sportsbook.

The three point spread may move before Super Bowl 51 kicks off on February 5th, and early indications show that it would be more likely to move in the Patriots direction than towards the Falcons. Roughly 70% of the early wagers are coming in on the Patriots -3. Sportsbooks may eventually adjust and make New England 3.5 point favorites if money continues to pour in on the favorites, but the books will most likely prefer to stand pat at the 3 point spread if they can.

Since 2004 there have only been two Super Bowls that landed on a spread of -3 at kickoff. The latest was Super Bowl XLVI between the Patriots and New York Giants in 2012, where New England was a three-point favorite and ended up losing straight up, 21-17. Super Bowl XLV a year prior also a three-point favorite in Green Bay, a team that went on to win 31-25 over the Steelers, covering the spread in the process.

It has been somewhat rare to see small Super Bowl spreads, with just four games since 2004 closing with a spread of three points or fewer. The favorites have gone 2-2 against the spread (ATS) in those contests. Super Bowls with small spreads have provided fans with some of the more entertaining matchups, with three of the four having finished with a game decided by six points or less. The only disappointing game that was projected to be close during that span was when the Seattle Seahawks overwhelmed the Denver Broncos in 2014 with a 35 point blowout.

Since 2004, the Patriots have been a favorite of three points or fewer in only four of their postseason games. They have gone 2-2 ATS in those games. The Falcons have not played nearly as many playoff contests as the Patriots have in recent years, but they have participated in two games as three point or fewer underdogs since ’04. In that span, Atlanta went 0-2 ATS, with the losses stemming from a 22-point disappointment against the eventual Super Bowl Champion Giants in 2012, and a six-point loss to the Arizona Cardinals in 2009.

Patriots quarterback Tom Brady has played in a total of six Super Bowls prior to this upcoming one. Although he has won a ring in four of his trips, he has covered the spread for bettors in just two of the six appearances. He has been a favorite in each of his last five Super Bowls, going a meager 1-4 ATS as a favorite.

This year’s Super Bowl total of 58 is historic, as it is the highest over/under ever set for a Super Bowl. The next highest total was set at 56.5 points in 2010 for Super Bowl XLIV between the New Orleans Saints and the Indianapolis Colts. That game finished 31-17 for 48 total points scored, far below what oddsmakers expected. Since 2004, eight Super Bowls have had a total set at 47 points or more, with the Under hitting in five of those games.

This NFL season has been kind to over bettors. There were many high scoring games, as evidenced by the Over going 21-15 in contests with totals closing at 50 points or more. The Falcons and their top-ranked offense were involved in eight of those games, with all eight soaring over the total. That includes both playoffs game with totals of 51 and 59.5 that finished with total scores of 56 and 65, respectively. The Patriots played in just one game with a total at 50 or higher, and that game finished with 47 total points scored.

Projected high scoring and close Super Bowl match ups usually provide the best entertainment value for fans, and Super Bowl 51 is expected to be both high scoring and a tight game. It should be an entertaining Super Bowl Sunday, and it looks like the over could be a great play right now, but check back for an official play as it gets closer to Super Bowl kickoff.
====================
TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. Vice President Joe Biden called on Japan and China to find ways to reduce tensions that spiked after Beijing proclaimed an air defense zone over disputed isles in the East China Sea, while repeating Washington was “deeply concerned” by the move.

The United States has made clear it will stand by treaty obligations that require it to defend the Japanese-controlled islands, but it is also reluctant to get dragged into any military clash between the Asian rivals.

“This action has raised regional tensions and increased the risk of accidents and miscalculation,” Biden told a news conference alongside Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

“This underscores the need for crisis management mechanisms and effective channels of communication between China and Japan to reduce the risk of escalation.”

He said he would raise U.S. concerns directly when he met Chinese leaders.

Biden was on the first leg of an Asian trip that takes him to Beijing on Wednesday and then to Seoul.

Biden also called for better ties between Washington’s Asian allies Tokyo and Seoul, chilled in recent months due in part to bitter South Korean memories of the 1910-1945 Japanese colonization of the Korean peninsula.

Japan reiterated on Tuesday that Tokyo and Washington had both rejected Beijing’s establishment of the zone - despite the fact that three U.S. airlines, acting on government advice, are notifying China of plans to transit the area.

“We reaffirmed that policies and measures of both our countries, including the operations of the (Japanese) Self-Defense Forces and U.S. forces, will not change and we will closely cooperate,” Abe told the news conference.

“We agreed that we will not condone any actions that threaten the safety of civilian aircraft.”

Washington said over the weekend that the advice to U.S. airlines did not mean U.S. acceptance of the zone, and last week it sent two B-52 bombers into the area without informing China.

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden (L) is welcomed by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe before their talks at Abe's official residence in Tokyo December 3, 2013. REUTERS/Toru Yamanaka/Pool

U.S. COMMITTED TO “REBALANCING” TO ASIA

Washington is also asking China not to set up an air defense zone in the South China Sea, where Beijing is locked in territorial rows with Southeast Asian nations, without first consulting countries concerned, a senior official travelling with Biden told reporters, according to Kyodo news agency.

The Japanese and South Korean governments have advised their airlines not to submit flight plans in advance as demanded from all aircraft since it announced the creation of the zone on November 23.

Japan Airlines and ANA Holdings, however, are uneasy about flying through the zone without notifying China’s civil aviation authorities, two sources familiar with the Japanese carriers’ thinking told Reuters.

U.S., Japanese and South Korean military aircraft all breached the zone last week without informing Beijing and China later scrambled fighters into the area.

Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman Geng Yansheng said China’s request for flight plans was good for aviation safety.

“A small number of countries’ resolute refusal to report is not beneficial, and is an irresponsible display,” Geng said in a statement on the ministry’s website. “The East China Sea Air Defense Identification Zone is a safe, not risky zone, a zone of cooperation not confrontation.”

In an English-language commentary, China’s official Xinhua news agency said Washington’s desire to “shore up its little brother” (Japan) was somewhat understandable.

Slideshow (9 Images)

But it added: “Yet when Tokyo keeps pissing off almost everybody in the region by its attitude toward its wartime history, it would ultimately cost the United States more than it would gain from backing a country that still honors those whose hands were red with American blood.”

Washington takes no position on the sovereignty of the disputed islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China. However, it recognizes Tokyo’s administrative control and says the U.S.-Japan security pact applies to them.

Biden also said Washington was “fully committed” to its strategy of “rebalancing” to Asia, dismissing doubts in Japan and elsewhere in the region over whether the United States has the resources to carry out that strategy given its fiscal woes, its attention on the Middle East, and partisan battles at home.
====================
Keith Olbermann announced on Tuesday that he will host a one-hour, nightly primetime show on Current TV starting in late spring. He will also become the "chief news officer" for Current. Olbermann had been without a television home since he abruptly left MSNBC, where he had hosted "Countdown" for eight years, in January.

For Olbermann, his move to Current gives him a chance to wield large influence over a a relatively tiny network. Current averages about 23,000 viewers in primetime every night--a far cry from the million or so viewers who watched "Countdown."

In a conference call with reporters on Tuesday morning, Olbermann said that "nothing is more vital to a free America than a free media, and nothing is more vital to my concept of a free media than news that is produced independently of corporate interference." He called Current "the model truth seeking entity" in television, and said that his new show was "the most exciting event in my career."

Olbermann said the show "will be for all intents and purposes an improved and we hope amplified and stronger version of the show that I just did at my previous network." He could not, however, provide details of the name and time of the show, saying only, "stay tuned."

Al Gore, the chairman of Current TV, also spoke on the conference call. He said he was "extremely honored and delighted" that Olbermann was coming to Current. He said Olbermann was a "great fit with Current in every way."

Olbermann will also be the executive producer of the new show. In the conference call, he called Current the only "independent news and information" channel in the United States. He said he was looking forward to working somewhere where "purely market forces are not the deciding factor in what we're doing here."

A reporter asked if Olbermann would be able to donate to political candidates in his new position-- a reference to the suspension Olbermann received at MSNBC for his donations to three Democrats.

"The answer is yes," Gore said. "We believe at Current that every citizen has freedom of speech, and that freedom of speech includes the ability to donate to candidates of your choice." He added that "full disclosure of that is

important."

As Chief News Officer, Current CEO Mark Rosenthal said, Olbermann will be intimately involved with all of the channel's news and informational programming.
====================
With a hat tip to sharp TCB reader bagwiggio, who posted a FanPost last night, you can now request a mascot appearance from Orbit.

UPDATE: It appears the form has been taken down from the website.

From the request form at the Astros website:

Requesting Orbit to visit your event is easy. Just complete the online appearance request form below. Upon receipt of the form, a representative from the Houston Astros will contact you to discuss guidelines, costs and availability. All requests for appearances must be made at least three weeks prior to the event. Completion of the form is a request only and does not guarantee an appearance.

If that wasn't enough look under the submit button:

Thank you for your interest in the Houston Astros Mascot "Orbit."

The leak is now complete.

With a hat tip to Astros County, according to MLB's twitter profile the leak on Tuesday was due to super-storm Sandy. If you don't believe me check it out for yourself. Maybe this falls along those same lines and we're just catching it now. It'll be interesting to see what they have to say about this one if they even say anything.

I know Orbit is a beloved figure in Houston, but sometimes the things with the most nostalgia are often disappointing to us as adults. I know Junction Jack wasn't a popular mascot among adults, but he was popular with my three year old daughter and had he stuck around I'm sure she would have formed some nostalgic memories with him. That's not to say Orbit will be a terrible mascot I'm just weary of his return. Not all remakes end up being as good as the original.

I'm also a bit miffed by the fact that this re-branding was supposed to take elements of the past and update them. We still need to see everything, but I feel like this re-branding has been more of a retread than an update to branding from the past.
====================
This article is over 5 years old

The Northern Territory's rate of 821 prisoners per 100,000 adults is by far the highest in the country

More prisoners are doing time in Australian jails than ever, official data shows.

The number of inmates in Australian jails hit a record 30,775 in 2013, up 5% from 2012, Australian Bureau of Statistics data released on Thursday shows.

The nation's rate of imprisonment is also up, at 170 prisoners for every 100,000 adults, from 157 for every 100,000 adults in 2003.

Indigenous Australians comprise 27% of the prisoner population, the data shows.

The Northern Territory has the highest imprisonment rate this year, with 821 adults in prison for every 100,000 adults.

Western Australia, with 256 prisoners for every 100,000 adults, is second, followed by NSW, Queensland and South Australia. The ACT has the lowest imprisonment rate.

Of the male inmate population, 20% was jailed for acts intended to cause injury, 15% for sexual assault and another 15% for unlawful entry with intent.

Women, meanwhile, were commonly jailed for drug offences (18%), acts intended to cause injury (17%) and unlawful entry with intent (10%).

Most prisoners were born in Australia (81%), followed by New Zealand (3%), Vietnam (2%) and the UK (2%).

The average age of Australian male inmates is 40, while for females it is 34.

Reoffenders constitute 58% of all the country’s prisoners.
====================
Why do some bridges wobble? Blame the way pedestrians walk on them

In the summer of 2000, a couple thousand people walked over the brand-new Millennium Bridge in London (pictured) at once, causing it to sway dangerously from side to side. The structure wobbled not because so many people were on it, but because they fell into lock step with each other and the motions of the bridge itself. In a new study that used multiple modeling approaches to capture pedestrian-bridge interactions, researchers found that pedestrian bridges don’t become more unstable as more people walk over them. Rather, things break down when the crowd exceeds a certain limit, the team reports today in Science Advances . When the number of people walking on a bridge passes this threshold, the force of their collective footfalls pushes the bridge from side to side in sync with the bridge’s minute oscillations and exacerbates the swaying. But, there’s a simple fix: Change the bridge design to make it heavier, longer, or stiffer, the researchers say. That will put the bridge’s natural motion outside of pedestrian influence. The team hopes the work will inform new bridge design, potentially saving lives and millions of dollars.
====================
A pub customer punched a staff member on the back of her head when she refused to serve him - days after the Moon on the Square pub barred him for urinating in the premises.

Andrew Miller pleaded guilty at Northampton Magistrates’ Court yesterday to the February 20 assault of a barmaid and is due to be sentenced on Thursday May 6.

District judge Tim Daber told him ‘all sentencing options are possible’ when adjourning proceedings for probation reports yesterday as he said Miller had a ‘substantial record of violence’.

Prosecuting, Vicki Walker said that at around 10.20pm on Thursday, February 20, Miller, 51, of Candace Court, Duston, Northampton, entered the Wetherspoons- owned Moon on the Square having already drunk several pints of beer.

Miss Walker said: “The barmaid told him he wasn’t allowed in the pub. She told him he had urinated up most of the bar before and was not welcome.

“He denied this.

“He started to move towards the victim then, and she began to move away from him.

“He then swung a punch to the back of her head.”

Under interview after his arrest Miller said he had drunk seven pints and admitted he knew he was banned but tried to go in there nonetheless. He also apologised to the barmaid, saying he did not intend to hit her. Defending for Miller, Ron Mineards said the punch did not connect “with any great force”, although he acknowledged the attack would have been upsetting.

Mr Mineards said his client, who suffers from epilepsy, had a background of mental health problems and anxiety. Miller, he said, currently lives in ‘supported accommodation’ and has been seeing a psychiatrist.

Miller was bailed on the condition he does not attempt to make contact with the victim, or enter the Moon on the Square.
====================
Nimal

By Lee Kyung-min

Immigration authorities said Tuesday that they are likely to cancel a 10 million won ($8,860) fine on a Sri Lankan man, 38, imposed for overstaying here illegally. The man who goes by his first name Nimal sustained multiple burn injuries after he entered a burning house to save a 90-year-old woman. He is the first illegal alien to have won a government-recognized award for such a "righteous act."

According to an official at the Korea Immigration Service's Daegu office, the man whose full name is Katabilla Ketiye Ge-Dara Nimal Siri, is likely to be granted leniency. His work visa expired last September.

"We asked Nimal and his legal representative to come to our office on Wednesday with the necessary documents ready," an official said.

"We will convene a meeting to positively consider canceling the fine after reviewing his past," she added.

This comes a day after the Ministry of Health and Welfare gave Nimal an award recognizing his courageous act in accordance with the Protection of Persons Killed or Wounded for a Righteous Cause Act.

Nimal was selected by a 15-member committee comprised of officials from the health and welfare, veterans' affairs and justice ministries, as well as lawyers and doctors.

The members unanimously agreed that Nimal should be given the award regardless of his current legal status. He was also given 10,450,000 won.

The former worker at a factory in Gunwi, North Gyeongsang Province, sustained second degree burns to his neck, wrists and head after he went into the house to save the woman, Feb. 10.

He was working on a nearby farm at the time, and saw the house on fire. He immediately ran to it and rescued the woman.

Nimal came to Korea in September 2013 on a work visa, and earned up to 1.8 million won a month, 80 percent of which was sent back to his parents in his home country.

After his visa expired, he decided not to go back to his country where he could only earn the equivalent of about 500,000 won a month.

Nimal paid for his hospital treatment using a 30 million won award given by a welfare foundation operated by LG Group.

Kim Do-hyen, his legal representative, said he is grateful for the government's decision.

"It is true that many illegal aliens refrain from reporting criminal activities or getting involved in situations that would reveal their status. I hope this case will encourage them to actively help those in danger, regardless of their legal status," he said.

Nimal is awaiting a G-1 visa issued to foreigners who require hospital treatment until they are fully recovered.
====================
Close

Gamers who played the over-the-top, violent and more often than not offensive FPS Postal 2 back when it first released in 2003 likely don't remember seeing a "closed for renovation, reopening June 2016" sign in front of a vacant store within the game's mall.

The sign was nothing, it was just an unassuming piece of the game's background that nobody paid attention to given just how loud and ridiculous the rest of the game was. Who would remember such a thing?

The developers at Running With Scissors, that's who. They didn't forget their 13-years-in-the-making surprise, and earlier this summer they delivered on their promise. An update to the game back in June added a hole in the "under renovation" store's chain-link fence. Players brave enough to venture through it found themselves in a long, mostly dark and empty room with a table on the far wall. Above the table a sign reads "Witness the future!"

On that table is a virtual reality headset that looks remarkably similar to the HTC Vive. Strapping it on transports players to a magical (VR?) store called Steme (get it?!), where customers line up to buy new video games, as streams of green code straight from The Matrix crawl up and down the mall's walls. There is a number of funny gag games present in the store itself, such as Half-Loaf 3, previous Postal games and an obvious Counter-Strike rip-off.

The clerk also tells customers (and players) not to buy Postal 3, a game that wasn't actually developed by Running With Scissors and sports a "Mostly Negative" customer review rating on Steam. One of the top customer reviews on the Postal 3 store page simply reads "Just get Postal 2."

That's about all there is to it. It's short, sweet and, in true Postal fashion, more than a little bizarre. At the end, players receive an achievement called "I'm not even supposed to be here today!", where Running With Scissors takes the opportunity to thank players for sticking with them after all these years and congratulates them for waiting 13 years for the in-game Easter egg.

What could have possibly compelled the game's developers to fulfill a 13-year-old promise that nobody probably even remembered in the first place? It's hard to say, but we're sure glad they did. You can watch the full Easter egg for yourself below.

Postal 2 is currently $9.99 on Steam.

ⓒ 2018 TECHTIMES.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
====================
If the continued existence of mathematics depended on the ability of the Republicans to defend the proposition that two plus two equals four, that would probably mean the end of mathematics and of all the things that require mathematics.

Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives, John Boehner, epitomized what has been wrong with the Republicans for decades when he emerged from a White House meeting last Wednesday, went over to the assembled microphones, briefly expressed his disgust with the Democrats' intransigence and walked on away.

We are in the midst of a national crisis, immediately affecting millions of Americans and potentially affecting the kind of country this will become if ObamaCare goes into effect — and yet, with multiple television network cameras focused on Speaker Boehner as he emerged from the White House, he couldn't be bothered to prepare a statement that would help clarify a confused situation, full of fallacies and lies.

Boehner was not unique in having a blind spot when it comes to recognizing the importance of articulation and the need to put some serious time and effort into presenting your case in a way that people outside the Beltway would understand. On the contrary, he has been all too typical of Republican leaders in recent decades.

When the government was shut down during the Clinton administration, Republican leaders who went on television to tell their side of the story talked about "OMB numbers" versus "CBO numbers" — as if most people beyond the Beltway knew what these abbreviations meant or why the statistics in question were relevant to the shutdown. Why talk to them in Beltway-speak?

When Speaker Boehner today goes around talking about the "CR," that is just more of the same thinking — or lack of thinking. Policy wonks inside the Beltway know that he is talking about the "continuing resolution" that authorizes the existing level of government spending to continue, pending a new budget agreement.

But, believe it or not, there are lots of citizens and voters outside the Beltway. And what is believed by those people whom too many Republicans are talking past can decide not only the outcome of this crisis but the fate of the nation for generations to come.

You might think that the stakes are high enough for Republicans to put in some serious time trying to clarify their message. As the great economist Alfred Marshall once said, facts do not speak for themselves. If we are waiting for the Republicans to do the speaking, the country is in big trouble.

Democrats, by contrast, are all talk. They could sell refrigerators to Eskimos before Republicans could sell them blankets.

Indeed, Democrats sold Barack Obama to the American public, which is an even more amazing feat, considering his complete lack of relevant experience and questionable (at best) loyalty to the values and institutions of this country.

The Democrats have obviously given a lot of attention to articulation, including coordinated articulation among their members. Some years ago, Senator Chuck Schumer was recorded, apparently without his knowledge, telling fellow Democrats to keep using the word "extremist" when discussing Republicans.

Even earlier, when George W. Bush first ran for President, the word that suddenly began appearing everywhere was "gravitas" — as in the endlessly repeated charge that Bush lacked "gravitas." People who had never used that word before suddenly began using it all the time.

Today, the Democrats' buzzword is "clean" — as in the endlessly repeated statement that Republicans in the House of Representatives should send a "clean" bill to the Senate. Anything less than a blank check is not considered a "clean" bill.

The Constitution gives the House of Representatives the responsibility to originate all spending bills, based on what they think should and should not be funded. But the word "clean" is now apparently supposed to override the Constitution.

If Republicans want to show some seriousness about articulating their case, they might start by deleting the abbreviation "CR" from their vocabulary. As has been said, "The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step." That journey is long overdue.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305. His website is www.tsowell.com. To find out more about Thomas Sowell and read features by other Creators Syndicate columnists and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate Web page at www.creators.com.
====================
There has been a lot of confusion regarding the Binance Coin. Every exchange issuing its own currency will have a lot criticism to deal with, for obvious reasons. Things got out of hand so much the company CEO explained a few things on Reddit. The team itself has never sold a single BNB coin since they were issued through a smart contract asset. He didn’t comment on the price,though, but there’s no reason for the company to manipulate it either.

When a cryptocurrency exchange has its own native coin, users get concerned. After all, there has been a fair of manipulation in this department through other platforms. MCXNow was perhaps one of the most notorious examples of such tactics. Binance, an up-and-coming Chinese exchange, has its own native currency as well. These tokens were created by an Ethereum smart contract some time ago. A total of 80m BNB coins is kept in reserve, all of which belong to the team. The remaining supply is freely traded on the exchange as we speak.

BNB Coin is Seemingly Perfectly Legitimate

As one would expect, some users still think there is manipulation going on. First of all, they claimed the Binance team has sold off BNB coins to suppress the price. Given the evidence provided by the CEO, that is impossible. All coins belonging to the team are still in the contract right now. It is certainly possible other traders manipulate the BNB price, though. That is the nature of cryptocurrency, unfortunately. Those with more money can easily control markets and take profits through different price manipulation tactics. The company itself isn’t involved in these practices, which is a good sign.

One also has to keep in mind a total of 200 million coins were created initially. That means there are 120m BNB coin tokens waiting to be traded. With people taking profits on a regular basis, it may appear a sif the price is suppressed Whales often try to lower prices and shake out some people who have no faith in future value appreciation. It is a common tactic occurring in all markets right now. Binance Coin is no exception, unfortunately. However, there is a twist to this story.

The Binance team actively buys back some coins off the market every quarter. Every three months, 20% of company profits will be used to buy back BNB at market value. If the value is high, the amount of coins to be bought back is much lower. There is no reason for them to suppress this price, nor do they have the necessary means to do so. It appears BNB is the one of the only legitimate exchange-issued currencies to date.It will be interesting to see how this currency performs in the years to come, though.

Header image courtesy of Shutterstock
====================
CLOSE Fire Destroys Crystal Lake Diner

Buy Photo Fire aftermath at the Crystal Lake Diner in Haddon Twp. Monday, June 2, 2014. (Photo: JOHN ZIOMEK/Courier-Post)Buy Photo

A favorite South Jersey neighborhood spot is no more.

Fire destroyed Westmont's Crystal Lake Diner late Sunday night. Firefighters from several communities responded to the blaze, which took more than two hours to bring under control.

The fire began just before 11 p.m. and tore through the roof of the building, according to police-scanner reports. No injuries were reported. The Camden County Fire Marshal's office is investigating the blaze, which appears to have started in the basement area.

When it was all over, the Crystal Lake Diner -- which stood on Cuthbert Boulevard for nearly a quarter-century – was gutted.

The Exadaktilos family has owned and run the diner since its start; like many diners, it was known for its homemade comfort foods.

In January 2013, Marianne Exadaktilos, the owner's daughter, talked about customers' favorite dish – the chicken croquettes with mashed potatoes.

"Everybody loves it," she said. "It's old-fashioned and they are homemade."

Read or Share this story: http://on.cpsj.com/1mILTsm
====================
A view of the 2016 Honda Accord's interior featuring an audio and navigation interface that works with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto Honda Honda is reinforcing its commitment to next-generation automotive technology by planting its feet firmly in Silicon Valley.

The automaker celebrated the opening of its beefed-up research and development facility in Mountain View, CA Thurday, where it will explore the kinds of technologies that are changing the way we drive and interact with our vehicles.

There is no denying how important Silicon Valley has become to the automotive industry.

"All our competitors are touting their operations here, and that is a good thing," said Honda R&D president Frank Paluch.

You can thank Tesla Motors, Google, and Apple — all headquartered in the tech capital of the world — for that.

As Tesla develops electric car technology, Google advances toward self-driving cars, and Apple works on an as-yet unannounced car project, Honda is among several legacy automakers booting up in Silicon Valley. Nissan, Ford, Mercedes, Volkswagen, BMW, General Motors and Toyota also have facilities here.

Honda's new R&D hub will be host to Honda's Xcelerator initiative, which will provide "resources to breakthrough technology innovators," Honda says. It's part of the company's effort to "rapidly develop prototypes with the potential to transform the automotive experience."

The refreshed 2016 Honda Accord Honda Honda also used the event to introduce the first car in its lineup to feature both Apple's CarPlay and Android Auto — the newly refreshed, 2016 Accord.

It's appropriate that the Accord would be the first model to get the dual interface upgrade, as it has been one of the most popular family sedans for at least the past two decades.

For Honda, this is just the beginning. Company officials say they're focused on helping Silicon Valley innovators develop future technology under its Xcelerator umbrella. The program offers funding and "Honda mentors" for proof-of-concept prototyping, and for some, an opportunity to pitch new ideas to Honda's global businesses.

Watch video of Honda's new Silicon Valley R&D hub below:
====================
Cynthia Davis (Photo: Livingston County Jail)

A Brighton Township woman avoided a jail sentence Tuesday for stalking another through Facebook’s messenger app, but she was given a 15-day sentence for violating probation in a separate case.

Cynthia Priscilla Davis told a Livingston County District Court judge that she didn’t intend to scare the stalking complainant, but simply was dealing with an issue “about my ex.”

“I felt bad she felt that way,” the 35-year-old defendant said.

Davis had initially been charged with unlawful posting of a message, a felony, but it was dismissed in a plea deal with the prosecution.

The woman who filed the complaint testified at a July hearing that Davis sent her six Facebook messages within 15 to 20 minutes and that one message indicated “I better watch out because (Davis) had nothing to lose.”

► Related: Woman admits to stalking via Facebook

The complainant, who said Davis was “fine” to her until the defendant learned she was dating the woman’s ex-boyfriend, described the messages as coming “violently,” and she noted one message indicated that she “better watch her back because I’m coming for you.”

Prior to announcing a sentence, Judge L. Suzanne Geddis asked Davis to take a drug test and expressed concern that the results appeared to show Davis “tried to fool the test, which is not good.”

Davis said she has not drunk alcohol or used drugs and that the test Tuesday was diluted because she “drank a lot of water” due to her medication.

Geddis agreed to sentence Davis to the recommended two-year probation sentence for stalking. The judge also ordered Davis to stay off social media and to randomly test as well as use Soberlink, which is a portable breathalyzer.

District Judge Carol Sue Reader, however, sentenced Davis to 15 days in the county jail for violating probation in a separate case.

In that case, Assistant Prosecutor Allison Bars told Reader that a 15-day jail sentence “is perfectly reasonable” considering Davis’ history, including the diluted sample she provided on Tuesday.

“We ask you consider the diluted (test) as a positive,” Bars said.

Assistant Prosecutor Scott Ehlfeldt told Geddis that a warrant request alleging Davis committed a malicious of destruction offense is reportedly pending. However, he said that request has not been record by his office as of Tuesday.

Contact Livingston Daily justice reporter Lisa Roose-Church at 517-552-2846 or lrchurch@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @LisaRooseChurch.

Read or Share this story: http://on.freep.com/2fbqCvA
====================
News reports now say that the Georgetown Police Department in Texas has withdrawn its allegation that a man arrested for fraud also may have been involved in the Target Corp. data breach from last December that compromised 40 million credit and debit card details and the personal information on 70 million customers.

According to an arrest affidavit, 40-year-old Guo Xing Chen of Houston may have been involved in the $70 million Target credit card breach in December 2013. Police in Georgetown said they do not believe Chen was responsible for the initial crime, which exposed personal information belonging to more than 100 million customers.

Police say on December 12, Guo Xing Chen used a stolen credit or debit card to purchase several gift cards at a Target store at 1021 West University Avenue in Georgetown and other Target stores in Round Rock and Temple.

Police also believe Chen used the stolen cards the previous day at a Target store in Temple, Texas.

Guo Xing Chen was arrested on Monday for credit card abuse and fraudulent identity charges. Bond was set at $40,000. It remains unclear where he obtained the cards.

An internal “Be On The Lookout” alert had been issued within Central Texas Target stores.

The affidavit says Chen had an outstanding felony warrant for credit or debit card abuse from the State of Arkansas.

Agencies/Canadajournal
====================
To knock on wood or to touch wood is done to ward off unlucky consequences, get rid of evil spirits, to undo something that is said that could possibly tempt fate or to bring good luck. One can also knock on wood three times after talking about something lucky or serendipitous, in order to ward off the evil spirits who might purposely ruin it.

It is believed by some that the superstition dates back to ancient pagan times and the belief that spirits or deities lived in trees, and knocking on the tree or touching it would acknowledge them and call upon them for protection from misfortune. It was also seen as a thank-you gesture to the spirits or gods for bringing good luck and blessings.

Irish folklore states that the act of touching wood sends a thank you to leprechauns for some good luck. The Greeks worshiped the Oak tree because it was sacred to Zeus and the Celts believed in spirits living in trees. Touching those trees brought good luck.

As many early pagan beliefs became part of Christian beliefs, this superstition may have been one of them. Some people believed that knocking on wood was associated with the Cross. A Jewish version of the superstition traces back to the Spanish Inquisition of the 15th century. The Jews fled to wooden-built synagogues for refuge and came up with a specific knock code to be let in. These refuges saved many lives, and it then became common to knock on wood to bring good luck.

By the 1800s, even children’s games included rhymes about knocking on wood for luck. By the 1900s, the Americans and British were doing the same.

Today, it is acceptable to knock on wood-like surfaces for good luck. There are times when people even knock on their own heads for luck when there is no wood around.

To find out about other superstitions, visit the Superstition Room.

Click Here.

Join our FB Fan page!
====================
Get the biggest Manchester United FC stories by email Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

EARLY next week Louis van Gaal will have been United manager for 100 days.

He landed in Manchester, following a brief stopover in Amsterdam, after guiding Holland to third place at the World Cup in Brazil.

Resplendent in a blue suit and striped sky blue and white tie for the official photographs with executive vice chairman Ed Woodward and Ryan Giggs his new No.2.

It was a faux pas quickly rectified when he dug out a grey suit and red, white and black tie for his official press conference unveiling - and the era of Van Gaal’s ‘philosophy’ and his Red revolution was under way.

United had waited since his May 19 appointment to introduce the former Ajax, Barcelona and Bayern Munich coach because of the World Cup.

But Van Gaal scrapped holiday plans to get his teeth into the task of repairing the damage inflicted by the 10-month David Moyes era.

So what has that 100-day face lift brought to United?

Here M.E.N. Sport takes a look at Van Gaal’s changes.

Personnel

When Tom Thorpe came on as a substitute for Angel Di Maria against West Ham at Old Trafford, the 21-year-old Mancunian became the 36th player Van Gaal has used in just eight competitive matches since the season kicked off in August.

Seven of those players have since left the club, either permanently like Danny Welbeck (Arsenal) and Shinji Kagawa (Borussia Dortmund), or loaned out like Javier Hernandez (Real Madrid), Nani (Sporting Lisbon), Tom Cleverley (Aston Villa), Nick Powell (Leicester) and Michael Keane (Burnley).

The make-up of the squad has been altered with the record-busting £155m summer investment on Angel Di Maria, Ander Herrera, Luke Shaw, Marcos Rojo, Daley Blind and Radamel Falcao plus the promotion of Academy products like Tyler Blackett, Paddy McNair, Jesse Lingard and James Wilson.

It has been a much-needed clear-out and freshening-up exercise that is beginning to bear fruit with improved results.

The major turn-around since the end of last season and it hasn’t been restricted to on-field newcomers as United swept out Moyes’ backroom staff when he was sacked and a new regime has been established with Giggs as Van Gaal’s sidekick.

There is now a strong Dutch influence with Albert Stuivenberg (assistant coach), Marcel Bout (assistant coach) Frans Hoek (goalkeeper coach) and Jos van Dijk (fitness coach), while Tony Strudwick moved to head of athletic development.

Tactics

There was initial unrest in Holland when Van Gaal threw out their Total Football style for the World Cup - but he became a hero playing 5-3-2 in Brazil.

Traditionally United have been 4-4-2 and after an early dabble with three at the back, things have seemed to settle on 4-1-2-1-2 with the midfield operating in the diamond shape.

Angel Di Maria’s stunning start to his Old Trafford career, largely as the left wideman in that system, has eased the fact that old-fashioned wingers like Giggs and Andrei Kanchelskis or Steve Coppell and Gordon Hill have been sidelined.

But such was the trauma of last season, any approach that provides entertainment and success is welcome and, in patches, you can finally see Van Gaal’s way is beginning to produce both.

Training

Van Gaal identified on his first day that, despite United’s muti-million pound training complex pushing all the buttons when it came to being state-of-the-art, the training pitches were far too exposed to the wind and lacked intimacy.

Work has been ongoing installing new boundary trees and a new pitch for the first-team squad.

There have been alterations to training times and the amount of sessions the Reds do. Van Gaal has introduced more intense and repetitive sessions to get United’s players used to his philosophy.

Off the field the players eat together at Carrington to help with squad bonding and the Reds boss has promised that all his foreign imports will speak English fluently in a year.

Press conferences

Sir Alex Ferguson has been surprised how honest Van Gaal has been in the media.

At times he has been brutally honest - for instance in saying that Welbeck didn’t score enough goals or Adnan Januzaj wasn’t playing because he’s in competition with very good players!

Not exactly Fergie-style. The Scot would protect his players in public and give little away but the Dutchman’s approach is very refreshing, very welcome and very good for copy!

Conclusion

A lot has happened in 100 days and Van Gaal had warned all along that it had taken him three months to get his feet under the table at his previous clubs before signs of his ideas sinking in became noticeable.

There is evidence that his timescale was spot-on and the Dutchman’s influence is starting to show.

But it is certainly going to take longer for all the imperfections to be completely ironed out in his masterplan.

It is hardly surprising that it hasn’t been a smooth overnight change around with a damaging casualty list disrupting the fluency of an already complicated switch from one set of tactics to another, along with the introduction of six new players.

Amid that mayhem, United to have climbed to fourth spot after taking just two points from the opening nine, plus the disaster at Leicester City. It has been a commendable recovery.

It hasn’t all been plain sailing and there are still likely to be some choppy waters to steer through.

There is still a discrepancy between the positives of the Reds’ exciting attacking verve and their nerve-jangling defensive frailties but United are inching in the right direction at last.
====================
So tomorrow is my first day on GalCiv III. It’s been a long break for me. It’s very nice returning to my baby. GalCiv III is the first GalCiv game I didn’t design or get to spend much time on.

A few observations

The engine is fancy

I basically have unlimited memory to work with. However, it uses a lot of memory. This isn’t terribly surprising given how complex the ships can get.

But it is still a problem.

I spent a little bit of time with this. If we require DirectX 11 and leave the DirectX 10 folks behind, we can, literally, halve our memory use in texture compression.

The Job System needs to be updated

GalCiv III’s engine is both its strength and its weakness. The strength is that it has incredible potential as a 64-bit, multi-core, high performance engine. The weakness is that these features can (and are) abused.

A high performance engine means it has the ability to be really really fast. But there’s another way of looking at it: It’s also very very forgiving of non-performance tuned code.

Not all cores are created equally. Notice that one of them is pegged. Now, imagine if you’re playing a 2-core CPU (like a laptop). This would be an issue.

A few examples is that there are a lot of calls for high precision timers in the gameplay code when, in fact, we only need the current time in seconds. Things like that add up faster than you might think.

Performance Tuning

Before I can even contemplate writing AI code for GalCiv III, the performance has to be a lot better. I can’t afford to wait 30 seconds between turns. It’s late game AI performance that needs help. But I can’t spend 3 days playing a game to make a few changes. The turn times have to get drastically faster.

Now, mind you, even today, GalCiv III is, to my knowledge, the fastest 4X at doing turns. That is, late game, waiting 30 seconds for 20 players on a large galaxy to do their thing is actually pretty impressive. But it can be a lot better.

And so that’s what I did yesterday and today: I made it a lot faster. A lot faster. Loading up the game is about half the time it was. Turn times are about a quarter the time they were. But there’s a caveat to my performance tuning: If you’re running 2 cores, you won’t notice any difference. If you have 4 cores, you’ll probably notice. If you have 8 cores, it’s massively better. That’s because I solved many of these problems through improving the task system.

Instead of an AI player going through all its ships one at a time to do its pathfinding, I just split it off into the N-1 cores at a time to do it. That is, if you have an 8 core PC, it’ll do 7 ships simultaneously.

Just warming up

Don’t get too excited. My check in (which you should have shortly) should make the game faster and more stable and use a lot less memory. But this is nothing. This is one day’s worth of effort. There’s a ton of low hanging fruit.

If I hadn’t checked in an update to Ashes of the Singularity: Escalation (if you don’t have it, do me a favor and go get it! <G>) to update their high level units, I’d have been able to fix that damn animation on loading thing that bugs the hell out of me (the galaxy should spin smoothly but there’s a call in its thread that sucks up too much CPU at a time).

This is for the base game

I will be getting to the expansion pack AI as well. But I want the base game’s AI and general performance to reach a place that are more satisfying.

That’s all for now.
====================
Manny Pacquiao’s best days are certainly behind him. That much was abundantly clear during his WBO Welterweight title fight against Jeff Horn on Saturday. But he should’ve been good enough to walk away with the victory anyway. But he didn’t; Horn, who came into the fight the +450 underdog, claimed a controversial victory that set the boxing world alight.

Former Heavyweight Champ Lennox Lewis was among the first to speak out:

Wow! PAC loses by UD? One judge had it 117-111? 😳 Wasn't the fight that I saw! — Lennox Lewis (@LennoxLewis) July 2, 2017

This is what's wrong with boxing. Horn was very game but I'm hard pressed to see how he could have won that fight by any stretch! #PacHorn — Lennox Lewis (@LennoxLewis) July 2, 2017

And was joined by plenty of others:

#PacquiaoHorn Stats dont lie. Manny Pacquiao just got robbed for the 2nd time after Bradley's fight. 👊💪 pic.twitter.com/N9PzOjsg71 — jHeAnNiE (@jen77slim) July 2, 2017

Shout out to Teddy Atlas telling Jeff Horn right to his face that he thought he lost. #PacHorn pic.twitter.com/HpLeqNW5aC — Josh Nacion (@Josh_Nacion) July 2, 2017

You know what they say:if you want to beat Manny Pacquiao you have to beat him dirty. Mayweather did it, Horn did it #PacquiaoHorn #PacHorn — Jopay (@mariazippyy) July 2, 2017

Manny Pacquiao losing is why boxing is such a joke. How can people take this sport seriously anymore? Jeff Horn did not win that, sorry — Jason McIntyre (@jasonrmcintyre) July 2, 2017

Final punch statistics favored Manny Pacquiao, but Jeff Horn won WBO welterweight championship #PacquiaoHorn pic.twitter.com/ZxMIeH88hU — ESPN Stats & Info (@ESPNStatsInfo) July 2, 2017

Manny Pacquiao lost but OBVIOUSLY had more hits. Unfair decision? Or boxing became really trashy. — 活け炭 (@pinxheprincessa) July 2, 2017

Stats don't lie. My boy, Manny Pacquiao, got robbed for the nth time. #PacquiaoHorn pic.twitter.com/1VzCSHv5Wi — MEL™ (@romwelch) July 2, 2017

Damn Pacquiao. They really did you dirty. 😔 — BEN BALLER™ (@BENBALLER) July 2, 2017

Jeff Horn after he won a rigged boxing match against Manny Pacquiao pic.twitter.com/GvtqDenjAA — BLACK ADAM SCHEFTER (@B1ackSchefter) July 2, 2017
====================
The longest tenured Florida Panther player on the team’s current roster is 24-year-old defenseman Dmitry Kulikov. The Russian blue liner turns 25 in just nine days, and is currently at the prime age for an NHL defensemen.

This makes perfect sense, as Kulikov has been playing some of the best hockey of his career lately, and is flashing some of the impressive offensive ability that got him selected 14th overall back at the 2009 NHL Draft. Though he only has one point through his first five games, Kulikov has been engaged offensively and solid defensively, leading to some of the strongest possession numbers on the team.

[table id=9 /]

Kulikov does this while playing alongside Alex Petrovic, who had a USAT% of 46.1% last season, and a relative USAT% of -4.2%. It’s not as though Kulikov is being carried by a strong possession teammate; if anything, the talented defenseman is carrying his partner, making his possession dominance even more impressive.

When contrasted with Aaron Ekblad, who is playing alongside possession juggernaut Brian Campbell, Kulikov’s early season success looks even more impressive. Sure, Ekblad has great possession numbers, but Kulikov has similar numbers while playing with a less talented defensive partner.

How is the young Russian getting it done, however? The possession metrics can tell us who is doing good, but until we start tracking zone entries and exits (along with other micro-stats), these metrics don’t do a good job of telling us why certain players are doing well. For that, we need to dig a little deeper, and use some video.

Last season, Dmitry Kulikov played a steady, responsible game while playing alongside veteran Willie Mitchell. We can see this in his shot attempts rate, as Kulikov only attempted 6.95 shots per 60 minutes of 5 on 5 ice time.

This season, that number has jumped up to 8.94 shot attempts per 60 minutes, and it’s because Kulikov is becoming much more involved in the team’s offense. The passive, steady Kulikov we saw in 2014-2015 has added an offensive aspect to his game in 2015-2016, and the team could be reaping the benefits soon. The following plays serve as perfect examples to how the 24-year-old has become more aggressively offensively, without sacrificing on the defensive side of the puck.

First up is Kulikov’s first point of the season. In this play, he sees a potential odd-man rush developing, and jumps into the play. With a full head of steam, he is able to blow right by the defenseman and get the puck to the front of the net. Connor Brickley would jam home the rebound to put the Cats up 2-1, and the team would go on to beat the Carolina Hurricanes by a score of 4-1.

In this next play, Kulikov almost picks up his first goal of the season by joining the rush late, and giving himself tons of open space and time to make an offensive play. Though the Russian may miss the net with this shot attempt, the high quality scoring chances that Kulikov is creating for himself will result in goals eventually.

Next up is this offensive chance created by Kulikov in the team’s matchup against the Dallas Stars. He jumps up into the play as soon as he sees the puck is loose, and then drives to the net in order to create a scoring chance. If this was last season, Kulikov would have dumped the puck back around the boards. This season, however, he makes a play with the puck, and almost creates a goal for his team.

The final example we have of Kulikov’s aggressive offensive play is also the best example of his dominant two-way play. In the long sequence of play, Kulikov makes a defensive zone stop, then jumps up into the rush. Though he bobbles the puck at his offensive blue line, his ferocious back-check leads to a turnover in the neutral zone. From there, he is able to kick start the team’s breakout, and get the puck moving in the right direction.

Dmitry Kulikov is looking like a dominant two-way player, and a consistent offensive threat this year. Seeing as he’s a player in his prime, this type of play should be expected from the Russian defenseman, who could really breakout offensively as the season progresses.

Kulikov has had the potential to provide this kind of play for a long time. Though we’re only five games into the season, it’s great to see him living up to that potential, and hopefully he can maintain this level of play for the rest of the year.

(statistics taken from war-on-ice.com and puckalytics.com, and are at 5 on 5 unless mentioned otherwise).
====================
A few days ago, my colleague Owen Gleiberman wrote a scathing essay questioning whether Colin Trevorrow was the right choice to direct “Star Wars: Episode IX,” suggesting that the “Jurassic World” helmer’s in-between indie, “The Book of Henry,” is such an abomination we have reason to think he could ruin the franchise that has already weathered the likes of Gungans and Ewoks.

It was a tough essay, so much so that I genuinely feared Trevorrow’s job could be in danger. And then a funny thing happened. “Star Wars” producer Kathleen Kennedy fired the directors on a completely different “Star Wars” movie, axing Phil Lord and Christopher Miller from the Han Solo project. What!?!?

The universe needs directors like Lord and Miller more than ever these days — and not just the “Star Wars” universe, mind you, but the multiverse of cinematic storytelling in general. Lord and Miller represent that rarest of breeds: directors with a fresh and unique vision, backed by the nerve to stand up for what they believe in.

Just look at their track record: After starting their careers as TV writers (they created the MTV cartoon series “Clone High” and wrote for “How I Met Your Mother”), the duo made their feature directorial debut with “Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs,” a wildly imaginative reinvention of a 32-page children’s book that heralded them as bold, outside-the-box comedy storytellers.

Related ‘Star Wars’ Han Solo Spinoff: Lord & Miller Fired After Clashing With Kathleen Kennedy (EXCLUSIVE)

Then they made the jump to live-action, bringing their trademark brand of hip, pop-savvy self-awareness to the feature-length “21 Jump Street” remake. Few animation directors have survived the leap from animation to live-action (just consider the likes of “John Carter” and “Monster Trucks”), but Lord and Miller took to the new medium like naturals (technically, they had experience from their TV writing days — and I remember hearing stories that they’d actually taken a break from “Cloudy” to write an episode of “How I Met Your Mother” just so they wouldn’t lose their Writers Guild insurance benefits, but that’s another story about animators don’t enjoy the same protection in this industry).

“21 Jump Street” took the concept of a tired old ’80s TV show — two baby-faced cops go undercover as high-school students — and rebooted it with a playful twist, turning the ludicrous setup into one giant joke. Then came “The Lego Movie,” in which they cracked one of the weirdest assignments in 21st-century filmmaking — bring the popular line of kids toys to life — in a wholly original way, embracing the fact that Legos had spawned an almost cult-like sub-genre of fan films (to capitalize on the trend, the Lego company had even released a “MovieMaker Set” in 2000, complete with stop-motion camera and Steven Spielberg-styled minifigure) to make the ultimate wisecracking meta-movie.

After that string of successes, Lord and Miller had become two of the hottest names in town, able to pick their projects. But like so many directors of their generation — children of the ’70s whose love of cinema had been inspired by George Lucas’ game-changing space opera, what they wanted was to make a “Star Wars” movie. For a moment, that seemed possible, since the producers were hiring indie directors like Rian Johnson (“Brick”) and Gareth Edwards (“Monsters”) to helm these tentpoles.

On paper, Lord and Miller’s irreverent sensibility seemed like a perfect match for Han Solo, the franchise’s most sardonic character. One has to assume that it was precisely that take Kathy Kennedy and the “Star Wars” producers wanted when they hired the duo. But this is where modern critics, columnists and the fan community at large fail to understand a fundamental change that is happening at the blockbuster level in Hollywood: These directors are not being chosen to put their personal stamp on these movies. They are being hired to do the opposite, to suppress their identity and act grateful while the producers make all the key creative decisions.

Want to know why Trevorrow was picked to direct “Jurassic World” when his only previous credit was a nifty little sci-fi indie called “Safety Not Guaranteed”? It’s because he plays well with others, willing to follow exec producer Steven Spielberg’s lead when necessary. Going in to the assignment, Trevorrow had no experience directing complicated action sequences or overseeing massive-budget special effects. He didn’t need it, because those aspects of the movie were delegated to seasoned heads of department, while Trevorrow focused on what he does best: handling the interpersonal chemistry between the lead characters. (Personally, I hold Trevorrow responsible for the decision to film Bryce Dallas Howard running in high heels, but not the turducken-like gag where a giant CG monosaur rises up to swallow the pterodactyl that’s eating Bryce’s assistant. Surely someone else oversaw that nearly-all-digital sequence.)

Independent schlock producer Roger Corman memorably observed that in the post-“Jaws,” post-“Star Wars” era, the A movies have become the B movies, and the B movies have become the A movies — which is another way of saying that today, instead of taking risks on smart original movies for grown-up sensibilities (say, tony literary adaptations and films based on acclaimed Broadway plays), the studios are investing most of their resources into comic-book movies and the equivalent of cliffhanger serials (from Tarzan to Indiana Jones).

To Corman’s equation I would add the following corollary: On today’s tentpoles, the director’s job is to take orders, while producers and other pros are called in to oversee the complicated practical and CG sequences that ultimately define these movies. It’s an extension of the old second-unit model, wherein experienced stunt and action-scene professionals handled the logistics of car chases and exotic location work — except that now, such spectacular sequences are the most important part of effects-driven movies. Meanwhile, the one ingredient the producers can’t fake or figure out on their own is the human drama, which is the reason that directors of Sundance films keep getting handed huge Hollywood movies: to deliver the chemistry that will make audiences care about all those big set pieces.

How times have changed: In the 1980s, the only one who would make a movie like “Fantastic Four” was Corman, which he did for peanuts, whereas two years ago, Fox dumped more than $125 million into the same property. And the director they picked? Josh Trank, whose only previous feature had been the low-budget “Chronicle.” Let’s not forget that Trank ankled his own “Star Wars” spinoff, which I suspect had everything to do with realizing what happens when forced to relinquish control of a project in which he’s listed as the in-title-only director.

Back in the ’60s, a group of French critics writing for Cahiers du Cinéma coined what has come to be known as “the auteur theory,” a relatively quaint idea that the director (as opposed the screenwriter, star or some other creative contributor) is the “author” of a film. In the half-century since, critics everywhere have fallen for this fantastical notion that directors have creative autonomy over the movies they make — when in fact, as often as not, that simply isn’t the case.

The auteur theory makes for a convenient myth, of course, and one that lazy critics have long perpetuated, because it’s much to difficult to give credit where it’s due when confronted with the already-cooked soufflé of a finished movie. Critics aren’t allowed into the kitchen, after all, and though countless chefs (or heads of department, to clarify the metaphor) contribute to any given film production, it’s virtually impossible to identify who was really responsible for the choices that make the film what it is.

How much of “Citizen Kane’s” creative genius can be attributed to cinematographer Gregg Toland? Would “Jaws” or “Star Wars” have been even half as effective without composer John Williams? Did editor Ralph Rosenblum save “Annie Hall”? And most relevant to the discussion at hand: Is it correct to think of “Rebecca” as an Alfred Hitchcock movie (he directed it, after all), or does the result more thoroughly reflect the hand of producer David O. Selznick?

This is all complicated by the fact that an entire class of filmmakers — the so-called “film-school generation” — seized upon the auteur theory, turning it into something of a self-fulfilling prophecy, as the likes of Coppola, Scorsese, Spielberg, Lucas and so on left their signature on the movies they made. Meanwhile, the Cahiers critics (several of whom went on to become directors, among them Jean-Luc Godard and François Truffaut) were protected by a uniquely French copyright law dating back to the 18th century, known as the “droit d’auteur,” which entitled them to final cut (a privilege precious few Hollywood directors have).

But these remain the exception, not the rule. In the case of the “Jurassic Park” and “Star Wars” franchises, the director is decidedly not the auteur. To the extent that a single vision forms the creative identity of these films, it’s almost always the producer we should hold responsible. To understand that, we need only look back to the original “Star Wars” sequel, “The Empire Strikes Back,” a movie “directed” by Irvin Kershner, but every bit George Lucas’ brainchild (he reportedly hand-picked Kershner for his strength with character development). The same goes for Richard Marquand on “Return of the Jedi.”

This shouldn’t be a scandalous revelation. It just doesn’t fit with the self-aggrandizing narrative that many directors have chosen for themselves. Yes, the 1989 “Batman” is without question “a Tim Burton movie”: Burton has such an incredibly distinctive aesthetic, and the personality to push it through a system that’s virtually designed to thwart such originality. But when it comes to the incredibly successful “X-Men” franchise, there’s no question that producer (and “Superman” director) Richard Donner deserves as much credit as those first two films’ director, Bryan Singer. Simply put, that franchise owes its personality to both of their involvement.

But when it comes to “Jurassic World,” that movie probably wouldn’t look much different in the hands of someone other than Trevorrow. And the same can almost certainly be said for the “Star Wars” movie he’s been hired to direct, because in both cases, it’s the producers who are steering the ship. When the stakes are this high, it would be downright reckless to give complete autonomy to relatively unproven directors.

That’s increasingly the case in Hollywood these days. Director Dave Green (who’d made a tiny Amblin-style movie called “Earth to Echo”) went through it on a franchise project produced by Michael Bay. He was tapped to helm “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows,” only to discover that he had no autonomy. Granted, Green was still wet behind the ears and had no experience with a nine-digit budget or big union crew. But that wasn’t the job, because Bay never expected him to handle everything. Instead, the producer pulled in more experienced professionals to oversee much of the action and visual effects, while Green followed orders and worked his magic with the actors.

You can bet Tom Cruise’s paycheck that the same thing happened on “The Mummy,” in which Alex Kurtzman is listed as director, but the producer-star was reportedly calling most of the shots. How appropriate that a Universal monster movie reboot should be the victim of what amounts to a kind of creative Frankenstein effect.

Likewise, Marvel has had more success (both financially and artistically) forcing directors to conform to an inflexible set of aesthetic guidelines than it did when art-house “auteur” Ang Lee experimented with his own ideas on 2003’s “Hulk.” And though Mexican director Alfonso Cuarón is celebrated for the personal touch he brought to the Harry Potter franchise, it was relatively malleable British TV director David Yates whom writer-producer J.K. Rowling approved to direct four more films in the series.

So where does that leave us with “Star Wars”? On one hand, it’s perfectly understandable that the producers would want Trevorrow to direct Episode IX, since he’s already demonstrated his capacity to play along with the producers. Meanwhile, it’s disheartening — but not altogether surprising — that a directorial duo as gifted as Lord and Miller have been fired from the Han Solo film, since they’ve been known to fight for the creative integrity of their vision.

But it’s a loss to the “Star Wars” world, since Lord and Miller’s previous credits demonstrate the kind of unique take they might have brought to the franchise. Warner Bros. trusted the duo enough on “The Lego Movie” to let them poke fun at Batman — arguably the studio’s most precious IP, previously rendered oh-so-serious in the Christopher Nolan trilogy. Lord and Miller’s minifigure Dark Knight was a brooding egomaniac and the funniest thing about that film, so much so that Warners ran with it, producing a spinoff that stretched the joke to feature length.

Sony Pictures Animation (where Lord and Miller made “Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs”) was similarly enthusiastic about their input on Spider-Man, greenlighting the pair’s high-attitude idea for an animated movie centered around Miles Morales, the Black Hispanic superhero who took over web-slinging duties after Peter Parker’s death. Though they’re not directing, the script is said to bear their fingerprints — which it seems is exactly what Kennedy and company don’t want on the Han Solo project.

With any luck, Lord and Miller will see the “Star Wars” setback as the opportunity that it is: Rather than being forced to color within the lines of a controlling producer’s vision, they can potentially explore the more individual (dare I say, “auteurist”?) instinct they so clearly possess on a less-protected property. Heck, maybe Sony’s Spider-Man project will be the one to benefit. Or perhaps they’ll be in the enviable position of pitching an original movie. Not all directors have such a strong or clear sense of vision that they can be trusted to exert it over a massive studio tentpole, but Lord and Miller are among the few actively reshaping the comedy landscape. Now is their moment, although as Han Solo would say, “Great, kid. Don’t get cocky.”
====================
The Curious Case of Michael McCarron

When Michael McCarron was selected 25th overall by the Canadiens in June, the fanbase was immediately divided. Some felt McCarron was a reactionary selection made following the embarrassing five game playoff series loss against the Ottawa Senators and that McCarron was a low-upside selection who had no business going in the first round of one of the deepest drafts in recent memory. Detractors were fairly quiet following his strong preseason, but since his poor start to his Ontario Hockey League career, they have returned in droves. On the flip side, there are some who believe that this year is a “throwaway” year. In the development of the NHL’s future talents, there is no “throwaway” year. McCarron is far from a low upside pick, but he has undeniably struggled this season. Fortunately, McCarron has been rounding in to form lately, meaning there is good news for Montreal Canadiens fans.

The Facts

McCarron was drafted in the OHL by the Belleville Bulls in the sixth round following the 2010-2011 season, a risky selection as McCarron was committed to Michigan State University. When McCarron departed the Honeybaked program he joined the United States National Team Development Program, instead of heading to the OHL. In McCarron’s first season (2011-2012), he scored nine goals and added 35 assists in 53 games (between the USHL and USDP) with the U17 Team. In the off-season, the London Knights swung a deal with the Belleville Bulls in order to acquire his rights, sending a fifth round selection and three conditional second picks to the Bulls. The following season, McCarron moved up to the U18 Team, where he picked up 21 goals and 26 assists in a combined 59 games. In his final 27 games played with the USNTDP, McCarron racked up 23 points, including eleven goals, good enough for fourth among all USNTDP U18 Team players in that span and second in terms of points-per-game pace. McCarron’s stock rose even further with a strong performance at the U18 World Junior Championship. McCarron scored twice and added three assists in seven games in the silver medal run, which tied him for second in Team USA goals and fifth in points.

The result of McCarron’s strong second half performance was a significant jump within the draft rankings. Central Scouting Services had him ranked 35th in their final North American skater draft rankings, compared to a “B” ranking in the preliminary rankings, which is reserved for mid-round selections. The Montreal Canadiens selected McCarron with the 25th overall pick. In the annual Lake Placid Summer Evaluation Camp, McCarron made the final roster, outlasting Canadiens fifth round selection in 2012, Brady Vail, who was among the cuts. McCarron grabbed two points in two games for Team USA White, but was held pointless in his final two games. In Canadiens preseason, McCarron was among the standouts, grabbing two assists and a plus-three rating in just two games.

McCarron decommitted from Western Michigan University and joined the London Knights, run by the Hunter family. McCarron got off to a solid start in the OHL, grabbing two points in his first two games. McCarron spent those two games in the Knights top six, commonly on a line with Josh Anderson (CLB ’12) and Chris Tierney (SJS ’12). Unfortunately, McCarron suffered a first degree separation of the AC joint in his shoulder late in his second game as a Knight. McCarron missed just one game and returned to the line up as the injury couldn’t be made worse by playing through it. McCarron, due to his injury and the return of Bo Horvat (VAN ’13), didn’t receive top six ice time when he returned. The lack of ice time didn’t stop McCarron from continuing to produce, as he grabbed three assists in his three following games. Since then, McCarron has been unable to crack the Knights top six other than during the World Junior Championship, which saw Anderson and Horvat–two staples in the Knights’ top six–join Team Canada.

McCarron Has Struggled Since Coming to the OHL

For the most part, McCarron has simply appeared too slow for the OHL level. Not necessarily in terms of foot speed, but in terms of decision-making. Too often he’s fallen behind the play, only to react too late. McCarron has struggled to connect simple, routine passes and struggled to receive passes as well. Sometimes he stays too high in the offensive zone, not allowing himself to use his best abilities, such as his play down low. Furthermore, McCarron has lacked intensity this season. For such a hulking player, McCarron would reasonably be expected to finish his checks more often than he does and drive the net with a higher level of regularity. Some games McCarron gets rather comically outmuscled by players much smaller than him and is a complete non-factor physically. Simply put, McCarron certainly hasn’t been a consistent physical presence. Due to his struggles, McCarron has often found himself benched for extended periods of time, particularly in the third period.

Historically, players coming from the USNTDP haven’t struggled in their CHL careers, but the list is very short. New York Rangers 2011 first round pick, J.T. Miller, is probably the closest comparable to McCarron, taking into consideration the age at which each joined the OHL and the strength of their respective teams. However, Miller was a consistent contributor throughout the year. Other similar players include Tyler Biggs, Charlie Coyle, Ryan Hartman, Stefan Matteau, Phil McRae, Jim O’Brien, and Brandon Saad, but they all joined the CHL from the USNTDP at different points than McCarron. All of the aforementioned players, save for McRae (who joined the OHL at 16), substantially out produced McCarron. Strictly looking at production, McCarron is most akin to a high-end 16-year old rookie in the OHL or a first-year draft eligible. The short list of comparables gets even shorter once other factors are taken into consideration like amount ice time, age, rawness, and size. There simply is not any other player quite like him.

With no true comparables, it hard to place expectations on McCarron’s season. However, most would agree that for a player of his size, skill, age, and draft pedigree, 23 points in 48 games topped off with inconsistent and lackadaisical play simply isn’t good enough. McCarron played 82 games last season between the USNTDP and international play. While both the strength of competition and placement of games are absolutely factors, the overall length is not. McCarron’s ice time, or rather lack of, has been a commonly used excuse for his lack of production. It’s definitely true that a portion of his best performances have come when he’s seen lots of ice time (see: LDN vs PLY 12/29/13, LDN vs SAR 01/01/14); however, in order to receive ice time he has to perform well. McCarron doesn’t play the penalty kill and essentially played himself off the powerplay as he has picked up just three powerplay points.

Flashes of Dominance and Recent Success

McCarron has struggled for long stretches of time this year, but breaking up those stretches are a handful of absolutely dominant performances. Performances where he outplayed Knights’ stars like Max Domi (PHX ’13) and Bo Horvat (VAN ’13) and the opposition’s star power. McCarron’s best performance early in the season was a game against the Windsor Spitfires on November 11th. McCarron would later pot two goals against the Belleville Bulls by driving the net hard. In the OHL Outdoor Double Header, McCarron was pointless, but posted his best performance up to that point. McCarron was flying around the ice, hammering everything in sight and controlling the play. McCarron earned the trust of the coaching staff and was on the ice for the game-tying goal late in the third period. McCarron’s most productive game was a four point effort against the Sarnia Sting, showcasing the aggressiveness and excellent playmaking ability that has largely been absent in his young OHL career.

Throughout the season, McCarron has shown glimpses of what’s possible in the future. Whether that be a burst of speed to blow past a defender, or a nice move to create a scoring chance. McCarron’s skill level isn’t a problem. McCarron gets around quite well for a player his size, even if his first few strides are rather cumbersome. On top of his skating, McCarron is also a fairly skilled stickhandler, possessing good hand-eye coordination and occasionally displaying soft hands for a player his size. Despite owning both a powerful wristshot and slapshot, McCarron doesn’t consistently utilize them. While McCarron hasn’t been consistently physical, when he does come ready to play, he makes his presence felt in a big way. Not only can McCarron flatten the opposition but he also keeps his stick on the ice and will go for the puck if it is the better option. McCarron, at his best, is a physical specimen, who combines his strength, skill, and reach to be a dominant powerforward package. Although McCarron has had just a few performances like that, there’s encouraging signs that there is more to come in the future.

McCarron’s move to centre, although a small sample size, has seen him improve considerably. Against the Kitchener Rangers on January 25th, McCarron centred the Knights fourth line, consisting of Chandler Yakimowicz and Tait Seguin. McCarron played arguably his best game as a Knight. McCarron was a wrecking ball, bulldozing everything in sight, and also grabbed two assists. In the few games since, McCarron has been shuffled all through the lineup, occasionally seeing ice time with London’s top players and he’s continued to be productive, with six points in his last five games. McCarron remains as a centre, typically displaying confidence both with and without the puck. While McCarron still has a ways to go in his own zone, his head is always on a swivel and he’s quite vocal on the ice.

The occasional glimpses of dominance have become more than just a shift here or there in recent days–it’s growing into periods and games. Chances are he will never be an incredible stickhandler, or an excellent skater. But to be a productive NHLer, he doesn’t have to be. McCarron possesses the size, smarts, and ability to be a productive NHLer. Now it’s up to him to bring a consistent effort and improve his overall game. If McCarron’s recent performances are anything to go by, he is finally on the right path. Encouraging news for Montreal Canadiens fans indeed.
====================
Could blue lights replace a daily cup of coffee? Scientists claim they could be more effective at keeping you alert than caffeine



Blue light is harmless to tissue but can trigger biological effects in the body

In a study, people exposed to blue light performed better at distraction tests

The same test, proved too much for caffeine users who performed poorly

It builds on research that has found blue light can improve cognitive abilities

Blue light has been getting a bad reputation lately for its role in disrupting sleep.

Smartphones and other gadgets used before bed can cause restless nights because their light causes melatonin suppression – a chemical which controls the body clock.

But there are some positives, according to a recent study, that looks at how blue light can make the brain more alert if it is used at the right time.

People exposed to blue light performed better on tests of brain function that included a distraction than those who had caffeine

Researchers at Mid Sweden University compared the effects of caffeine and blue light on the brain and found them both to have a positive effect.

Interestingly, people exposed to blue light performed better on tests of brain function that included a distraction.

The same distraction, however, proved too much for caffeine users, who performed poorly.

‘Blue light and caffeine demonstrated distinct effects on aspects of psychomotor function,’ said the authors of the report.

Smartphones and other gadgets used before bed can cause restless nights because the light causes melatonin suppression - a chemical which controls the body clock

‘It has the potential to positively influence a range of settings where cognitive function and alertness are important.’

The study builds on research that suggests blue light can improve cognitive abilities such as memory, alertness and reaction time.

Although harmless to tissue, blue light is strong enough to trigger biological effects in the body, and it’s being used increasingly for a range of medical treatments.

For instance, doctors at the University Hospital of Heidelberg have developed a patch that emits blue light to treat pain.

Researchers from the University of Montreal said they were 'stunned' to discover blind people can tell when a light has been turned on and off

Blue light may also help combat bad breath.

Just two minutes’ exposure to blue light from lamps used for tooth whitening was enough to kill bacteria in saliva associated with bad breath, according to one study.

Even blind people are able to get the cognitive benefits from blue light exposure, according to a recent research.

Research from the University of Montreal found that even when vision is impaired and objects can no longer be seen, changes in light still register in the brain and blind people can tell when a light is switched on or off.

The research could have far-reaching effects in the treatment of blind people, as well as in other cognitive disorders, because doctors can potentially use light to activate specific parts of the brain.
====================
Kendálin weaves together threads from Celtic, Nordic, Middle Eastern, Balkan, and other world folk traditions into a sound that is simultaneously new and familiar. We hope our music will lift you up and open your heart. This second album includes energetic instrumentals, lush vocal harmonies, and tender tunes. Some are new, while many we’ve been performing for years and have had many requests to record. Some are originals; others come from outside the group and are reshaped in the creative process that happens when the nine of us are making music together. We are excited to be in the midst of this undertaking and invite you, our community, to help us complete it so we can share what we are creating with a larger audience.

Most of Kendálin (Bryan, Rachel, Shawn, Tasha, Alex, Vera, Anna, David)

We are a band of musical kindred spirits who share a love of making music and a passion for excellence. We appreciate a wide variety of folk traditions and much of our sound comes from blending sounds and ideas from different traditions in unusual ways, while staying true to the heart of acoustic folk music. We all volunteer our time and talents to make this band a reality. Since our first album we have been refining our sound, welcoming new members into the band, writing more music, and developing new arrangements, and it feels like it’s time to share this new work with a larger audience. Our vision is to make the world a little bit better by sharing uplifting and inspiring music.

Jason Schooler, our bass player (photo by Sacha Müller)

We are working in local Portland studios, with independent engineer/co-producer Sacha Müller, and some wonderful guest musicians, to record this new project. We received an amazingly generous donation from a long-time fan that, along with a few smaller donations already received, will cover about a third of the $21,250 it will take to complete this project. That sounds like a lot of money (we certainly found it a somewhat overwhelming number when we figured it out), but here’s the reality of doing a professional quality album with a 9 member acoustic ensemble (plus guests):

Studio space rental $5,800

Engineer/co-producer: $7,700

Mixing and mastering: $2,650

Rights to cover pieces: $600

Professional photos (for album cover, etc.): $300

1000 CDs and 100 download cards: $1,150

An album trailer to promote the CD: $450

Kickstarter costs (their fees, the video, merchandise for incentive, mailing costs): $2,600

So now we are reaching out to you, our larger community, to raise the remaining $14,000 to get this project done. We expect it to take about a year to finish, which would mean completing the CD toward the end of 2016.

Kendálin bumpersticker - Image created by Alex Atallah, Kendállin's percussionist

Glimpse of Rising in Vera's Hand (full lyrics are on our website)

This is the image that will be on the tote bag. It was created by Alex Atallah, Kendállin's percussionist

If you have questions about this project or the band, please email or call Tasha Harmon and Shawn Orpinela at: Tasha@Kendalin.com or 503-788-2333.

Thank you for considering supporting this project.

One of Bryan's many instruments (photo by Sacha Müller)

Anna in the recording studio (photo by Sacha Müller)

Rachel's five-string fiddle (photo by Sacha Müller)
====================
Time Warner Cable customers have been seeing their bills climbing at a pretty steady clip over the past few years. For all that TWC might complain about needing more negotiating power with content companies, though, the cable half of the equation isn’t the problem. Instead, all that nickel-and-diming comes right from the cord most consumers won’t be able to cut: broadband access.

The folks over at Quartz dove into Comcast’s and Time Warner Cable’s quarterly reports to see just where all those earnings come from. They found that for TWC subscribers in particular, television isn’t really more expensive than it used to be, but the price of internet access just keeps going up and up.

Quartz found that over the past two years alone, TWC’s broadband subscribers have seen their bills go up by 20% — and that’s broadband specifically. Despite the FCC’s findings earlier this year that basic cable rates are increasing at four times the rate of inflation, TV isn’t real the driver behind TWC subscribers’ painful bills. Aside from a small uptick in TV costs this past quarter, the actual cable part of a Time Warner Cable bill has remained relatively flat.

Comcast’s report doesn’t separate out subscriber revenue from broadband vs. phone or TV service in quite the same way, but in a general sense their customers have seen about the same price hike as TWC’s have. Other, smaller providers may not be much better; a large consumer survey earlier this year found that TV and broadband bills for everyone have drastically outpaced the rate of inflation.

Financially, it makes perfect sense that companies would be charging internet subscribers as much as they can. Cable television subscriber numbers, especially with TWC, have been plummeting for quite some time. Broadband subscriptions, on the other hand, continue to increase. The future of both companies — and the core of their merger plan — is all about broadband connections.

Modern Americans need useful internet connections, not just for entertainment but also for work, education, commerce, and social connections. And since competition doesn’t exist in many markets, there simply may not be anywhere else for a dissatisfied TWC or Comcast consumer to go. That’s the perfect recipe for consumers to keep being squeezed by bills that go nowhere but up.

The incredible rising internet bill [Quartz]
====================
Despite it seeming like an excellent money making opportunity; all of the work actually gets you very little in return – approximately $156 every year; however, this does not take into consideration the amount of electricity you would use, which is a lot!If you have invested in some Bitcoins or other cryptocurrencies, and have considered venturing into the realm of mining, it is important that you read the following before doing so.It might seem like an easy task, with the help from the use of mining apps; however these should be avoided, as they are usually scams, or developer exercises that have been designed to be so difficult to install and manage, that you could actually end up just wasting your time. Let’s look at MobileMiner, for example. This app requires prepackaged sources, which you need to download from GitHub, and then installed with the help of Xcode, and the iOS App Signer. Once you have done all of this, you will then need a wallet config requirement from your cryptocurrency of choice. Only after you have done all of this can you actually start mining.Then comes the simple act of keeping the app running in the background. This will make your phone hot, and kill your batter in just a few hours.You are probably wondering how much all of this will make you. It’s a staggering $13 a month. And this is on the assumption that you will be mining at night as well. It is an awful lot of work for very little in return, and that is not to mention a lot of added costs on top of this. Whether you still choose to mine or not is up to you; however, if you do, it might be better to take it to the next level and purchase equipment designed for this task at hand. iPhones are certainly not made for digging up cryptocurrencies
====================
IN NOVEMBER 2005, at the World Summit on the Information Society conference in Tunisia, Nicholas Negroponte, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, unveiled a small, cute, lime-green computer. The “$100 laptop” caused quite a stir among those interested in economic development. Dr Negroponte and his non-profit venture, One Laptop Per Child (OLPC), hoped that the combination of clever design and the scale efficiencies of manufacturing would make it possible to make the laptops for $100 each. Governments in the developing world, he predicted, would order millions of the laptops and give them to schoolchildren, triggering a revolution in education.

AFP

Sceptics argued that it would make more sense to spend the money on other things—water, sanitation, health care, teacher training—rather than laptops. Large orders from governments failed to materialise. Two-and-a-half years after it was unveiled, the machine, now officially known as the XO Laptop, still costs nearly $200 to make and only about 300,000 of the things have been distributed. And in recent months several senior figures have departed from OLPC, casting doubt over its ambitious goals.

But in one respect the XO Laptop has undoubtedly made an impact: by helping to spawn a new market for low-cost laptops. Hardly any models costing $500 or less were available when the XO burst onto the scene, but now there is a wide selection of such machines, from familiar makers such as HP and Intel, and from relative newcomers such as Asus and Pioneer Computers. By raising the very possibility of a $100 laptop, the XO presented the industry with a challenge. Wayan Vota, founder of OLPCNews.com, an independent website that follows the project, calls the XO a “harbinger of an entirely new class of computers”.

The Classmate PC made by Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker, is arguably a direct rival to the XO. In July 2007 Intel joined the OLPC project, but pulled out in January 2008. Its departure stemmed from the rivalry between the Classmate and the XO, which take very different approaches to promoting low-cost computers in the developing world. The XO is a radical, clean-sheet design that runs the Linux operating system under a graphical interface called Sugar. The Classmate, by contrast, is a full-fledged but cheap laptop (it costs $300-500) that runs standard Windows software. Intel's promotional literature, touting the Classmate's “real PC capabilities” looked like a swipe at the XO.

But Intel had a point. The XO's Linux-based software is free and can be freely modified by users—something the XO's backers were keen to encourage. But government and education officials would prefer to stick with the software that has, for better or worse, become the worldwide computing standard. In May Dr Negroponte conceded that the lack of Windows support had hindered the XO's adoption, and announced plans to produce a new, Windows-based model.

Although the Classmate may have stolen some of the XO's thunder in the developing world, another low-cost laptop has been a runaway success in the developed world. The tiny Asus Eee PC, little bigger than a paperback book and weighing less than a kilogram, sold more than 300,000 units in 2007 alone. It is now available in several versions: the most basic model, with a seven-inch screen, costs $299, and a new high-end model with a nine-inch screen costs $549. HP, the world's biggest PC-maker, entered this new market in April with the “Mini-Note”, a small laptop weighing just over a kilogram. It too will cost under $500.

All of these new machines are being aimed at consumers in the rich world, who like the idea of a computer that can be taken anywhere, as well as being sold for educational use in poor countries. The $100 laptop has been a success—just not, so far, in the way its makers intended.
====================
Trade unions in Greece have called a general strike on Thursday 14 December as parliament is set to discuss next year’s budget.

And the budget is terrible, cutting spending by £2 billion and increasing taxes by £2 billion on top of all the austerity that has already been imposed.

That means cutting funding to the health service by 28 percent in one go. The Athens Metro also faces a cut of 32 percent.

Greece’s government, led by left party Syriza, is implementing a bailout agreement with the European Union, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund.

These institutions, together known as the Troika, say that Greece’s government must reach a primary deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP.

That means that the difference between what it takes in taxes and what it spends must rise to about a thirtieth of the size of the economy.

Before the crisis Greece’s government had a deficit of 11 percent, so an amount equivalent to 15 percent of the whole economy has been taken out since then.

It’s come out of education, health care, public sector wages, benefits and pensions. None of these things were responsible for creating Greece’s debt.

We’re told that “the Greeks” were spending too much and now have to pay.

But not all Greeks are the same. It’s the rich and the banks who were overspending—thanks to the international finance markets—and now it’s the rest who are paying for it.

This would be reason enough to call a strike.

But on top of that, floods hit the Attica region earlier this month and killed 23 people in a working class area west of Athens.

Those deaths could have been avoided. Everyone agrees that the floods were so bad because no money has been spent on infrastructure, on providing an outlet for the waters.

So one might have expected the budget to spend more on infrastructure to prevent further catastrophes. But there’s no prospect of that as they try to reach their ridiculous surplus.

Putting extra austerity on top of such an event is a provocation.

So are plans to bring in a new law making it harder for local trade union bodies to call strikes.

Such measures are demanded by the bailout agreement, and part of the strike is also about trying to stop them getting to parliament.

Syriza has moved to the right rapidly since taking office. The most recent scandal concerned its moves to sell arms to Saudi Arabia.

And there is so much anger that trade unionists affiliated to Syriza haven’t been able to oppose strikes, only to use delaying tactics and the like.

Now the union leaderships have been pushed into action because there is a fightback.

Public sector workers have been fighting against a government ban on new permanent jobs. For some years the public sector has only taken on temporary contract workers.

For the government, this is a way of “recycling unemployment”—getting some people into work some of the time. But it’s not good enough for the workers or for those who rely on their services.

Hospital workers struck across Greece on Wednesday, opposing the sacking of contract workers. They also struck last week, and there have been similar actions by local government workers.

The bailout agreement threatens any state-run utility with privatisation if it doesn’t make enough cuts to become profitable. Athens Metro workers have struck against this blackmail.

And there have been pensioners’ protests and two one-day strikes against the National Bank of Greece’s plans to run down its pension scheme.

So there are many streams flowing into the general strike, and a successful general strike will give them all a boost. It will show workers fighting in every sector that they are not alone.
====================
Drainage issues have San Marcos businesses preparing for floodwaters Copyright by KXAN - All rights reserved Copyright by KXAN - All rights reserved Drainage issues have San Marcos businesses preparing for floodwaters prev next

Candice Avila - SAN MARCOS, Texas (KXAN) - A construction project in downtown San Marcos designed to relieve drainage issues isn't quite working as planned.

Walking down North LBJ you would think businesses were preparing for a hurricane, but instead store owners are trying to fight back against the recent rain.

"These heavy sandbags, I have to put them on the door and stack them so that the water does not come in," said business owner Kristian Alvarez.

Sandbags are an unwelcome sight considering a recent drainage project was supposed to stop flooding events from happening.

"I'm ready to keep the water from coming in because it was a pain two weeks ago," said Alvarez. "We had to close down which is very frustrating, because that means no income."

But the city wants them to know it will be fixed.

"We're working really closely with the businesses because we do understand that this is a big weekend for our downtown businesses," said Kristi Wyatt with the City of San Marcos. "We have graduation and school is out, so there's going to be a lot of people out there. We want to make sure they can keep their doors open."

Once city leaders are finished evaluating the area, a report will be taken to council to determine the next step.
====================
If you’re a baboon, being in charge gives you a lot of advantages: you have better access to food, you get more action from the ladies, and your kids tend to grow faster and live longer. Low-rankers, meanwhile, must expend more time and energy to get food and mating opportunities. It makes sense to assume that the baboons at the bottom of their hierarchy might experience more stress than their high-ranking relatives.

But life at the top of a baboon troop isn’t all fun and games, since the alpha male must constantly struggle to maintain his social position. A new study in Science shows that alpha males suffer from much more stress than the second highest-ranking baboon, and tend to exhibit the same amount of stress hormones as baboons much lower in the hierarchy.

To study stress in a group of wild savannah baboons, the researchers collected 4,000 fecal samples from 125 adult male baboons over nine years in Amboseli, Kenya. Their goals were twofold: to determine how stress differed between high- and low-ranking baboons, and to assess whether this pattern changed in times of upheaval. The scientists tested each fecal sample for a group of hormones called glucocorticoids, which can indicate how much stress each baboon was dealing with at the time.

The researchers found that, with one notable exception, glucocorticoid levels decreased as rank increased; in other words, low rankers experienced much more stress than higher-rankers. The exception, however, was the alpha male’s stress levels, which were just as high as those of the low-ranking baboons. While the males that ranked second through eighth seemed to enjoy relatively low-stress lives, the alpha male experienced just as much stress as the baboons ranking ninth through fourteenth.

One of the most unexpected finding of this research is that the alpha males’ glucocorticoid levels were so different from the second-ranking males'. Two of the study's other findings may account for the immense amount of stress that the highest-rankers experienced: they had a 17 percent higher rate of aggressive encounters with other baboons and they spent 29 percent more time mating than lower-rankers did. These physiological costs of maintaining the top spot are likely responsible for the sky-high stress levels exhibited by alpha males.

The stress patterns were consistent, no matter which individual held each rank; the study ran long enough for baboons to spend time at several different social ranks, and stress levels were a product of rank, rather than of consistent individual hormone profiles. In times of instability within the troop, this pattern didn’t change, but all the baboons’ stress levels went up a bit.

While short-term bursts of glucocorticoids are beneficial and can help individuals cope in stressful situations, lengthy exposure can be harmful. Over the long term, high glucocorticoid levels are known to suppress the immune system. In the study, alpha males exhibited much higher parasite loads than the baboons just beneath them in the hierarchy.

The researchers also noticed another interesting trend in their data: the alpha males tended to turn over more often than expected, and weren’t able to monopolize access to the troop’s females. Meanwhile, the second-ranking males managed to secure more matings than their rank suggested. While not directly tested, it’s possible that high stress levels negatively affected the health and performance of the alpha males, causing them to fall short of their reproductive potential.

Researchers often test for an effect of rank by lumping all high-ranking animals together and comparing those individuals to a group of lower-rankers. In light of this study, scientists may need to reevaluate this approach, and take into account the unique circumstances of various social ranks.

Science, 2011. DOI: 10.1126/science.1207120 (About DOIs).
====================
10 to 20 minutes is all you need!

People often ask me what to do if they want to lose weight and have no time to train.

The first and most obvious solution that takes no time at all is dieting. Diet is 70% of the battle for fat loss and it can be greatly speeded up by adding specific fat loss training methods. Pick any diet you like (apart from the Atkins diet or anything that proposes no vegetables and ridiculous diets like the maple syrup diet) and stick to it! Don’t modify it because you have heard that actually, eating chocolate, as long as it’s over 75% Cocoa isn’t fattening or anything similar, an average size chocolate bar is 1000 calories; that’s almost half the recommended daily intake for a woman.. All of those amazing diets work, but you have to do them. One that I have recently tried and got amazing results with is the Warrior Diet by Ori Hofmekler.

Ten to twenty minutes of Swings

Do you have ten to twenty minutes three times a week? That’s a maximum of 1 hour of training a week. I think even the most occupied human being could manage to fit that into their schedule. Also, if you really want to lose the weight then you will make time to do the exercise. As I have mentioned many times before, there are very few things in this world that are more important than your health so it should be easy to find a slot to do some exercise.

Kettlebell Swings and Snatches

Get a kettlebell (16kg for men and 12kg for women) and swing it as many times as you can in the time period that you chose. The kettlebell swing is one of the most effective exercises for fat loss as it is a full body ballistic exercise. There isn’t another exercise that works more muscles and puts such a high demand on your metabolism. Well, that’s not entirely true, there is one exercise that burns more calories and that is the kettle bell snatch. You can do the same protocol with snatches. That’s all you need! One piece of equipment and one exercise. Some of you may have heard of Tracy Reifkind; she lost 50kg in a year with this same protocol and the Warrior Diet.

If you have never done kettlebell training before it is best to get taught (at least the basic movements, swing, clean and press and tgu) from a IKFF CKT or RKC certified instructor.

Don’t have a kettlebell?

Pick any full body exercise and perform it at a high enough intensity for twenty minutes. Examples are 10 second sprints, body weight squats, bicycle sprints, hill walking, running on a trampoline, burpees, squat thrusts, jumping jacks, etc etc. Do around ten to twenty reps or ten second blasts giving an all out effort, rest for a couple of seconds and then repeat till the time runs out.

A protocol that is often used in CrossFit is choosing three to five exercises with a set number of reps each and performing an AMRAP (as many rounds as possible) in the chosen time period.

An example of this would be:

20 Kettle bell Swings

15 Bodyweight Squats

10 Pushups

5 Pull Ups

Do as many rounds as possible in 20 minutes and then every time you do the same workout again, try and beat your previous score.

If you don’t know how to swing or snatch a kettle bell then check out one of my kettle bell courses here!

Check back soon as I will be putting up a series of Kettlebell instructional videos so that you can learn all of the exercises at home.
====================
Hijackers surrendered, searched and taken in custody. — Joseph Muscat (@JosephMuscat_JM) 23 dicembre 2016

Initial forensic exams now showing weapons used in Afriqiyah hijack are replicas. — Joseph Muscat (@JosephMuscat_JM) 23 dicembre 2016

Malta, aereo libico dirottato: la rotta del volo in riproduzione....

Malta, il dirottatore dell'aereo sventola la bandiera della Libia di Gheddafi in riproduzione....

Malta, liberati gli ostaggi: i passeggeri scendono dall'aereo in riproduzione....

First group of passengers, consisting of women and children, being released now. — Joseph Muscat (@JosephMuscat_JM) 23 dicembre 2016

Ore di paura a Malta. Due persone minacciano di far esplodere un aereo di linea libico, dopo averlo dirottato. A bordo dell'A320 dell'Afriqiyah Airlines ci sono 118 persone, 111 passeggeri: sette membri dell'equipaggio, 82 uomini, 28 donne e un bambino. Una volta atterrato l'aereo è circondato da militari e membri delle forze speciali maltesi.Sono circa le 11,30. Dopo circa due ore di trattative, i dirottatori decidono di liberare gli ostaggi e deporre le armi. A bordo restano il pilota e il suo secondo. In cambio del loro rilascio i due pirati chiedono asilo politico. Ma non reggono e alle 15,45 si arrendono. L'annuncio su Twitter del primo ministro Joseph Muscat.E sempre Muscat in serata fa sapere che le armi usate dai dirottatori erano "finte", stando ai "primi esami".L'aereo proviene da Sebha, nel sudovest della Libia, ed è diretto a Tripoli. Un volo interno che l'Afriqiyah Airways effettua ogni venerdì - con partenza alle 10,10 e arrivo alle 11,20 - e ogni martedì. Appena atterra a Malta, l'aeroporto di Luqa viene chiuso: gli attentatori dicono di avere bombe a mano. Altre fonti però citano il pilota. Dicono che avrebbe descritto alle autorità libiche con le quali è in contatto, uno dei dirottatori con indosso una cintura esplosiva. La paura è quella di un attentato dell'Isis. Sempre il pilota dell'aereo, Ali Milad, citato dall'account Twitter di Libya's channel, dice che i dirottatori volevano far atterrare l'aereo a Roma.Sono le autorità libiche ad avere contatti radio, secondo fonti della sicurezza maltese avvengono direttamente con la torre di controllo di Tripoli, mentre l'aereo era in volo e veniva deviato su Malta. L'ipotesi di una trattativa in corso con la Libia trova conferma anche nelle dichiarazioni del ministro dei trasporti libico che - riporta l'agenzia turca Anadolu - parla di "negoziati in corso".Lo spazio aereo sopra Malta è subito chiuso e i voli dirottati su Catania e Palermo. Gli aerei di Ryanair e Lufthansa fermi sulla pista, i passeggeri non possono scendere e si provvede a fargli arrivare cibo e acqua. Poi si arrendono e Muscat conferma che a scendere dall'aereo è un primo gruppo di 25 persone, sono donne e bambini. Lentamente tutti i 111 passeggeri dell'aereo libico vengono rilasciati.Sul velivolo restano solo il pilota, il suo secondo e i due dirottatori. Ma si arrendono poco dopo. Uno dei due uomini arrestati ha 23 anni e ha detto di far parte della tribù Toubou, a sud della Libia: voleva formare un partito pro-Gheddafi, contrariamente a quanto prevede la nuova costituzione libica.
====================
[Rating T13][Friendship][Romance][Drama]

It’s no secret to any fans of Zootopia that Nick and Judy have authentic chemistry, a steadfast bond between them that can withstand all sorts of challenges, including prejudice and heartbreak. Taking place directly after the hustle at the natural history museum, this marvelous story shows that this bond of theirs still has a ways to go before they become partners on the force. There’s cute and fluffy moments aplenty, but whenever the story needs to shift emotional gears, it isn’t afraid to get down and dirty with the serious matters. Mostly upbeat and abounding with fantastic character growth, “Between the Lines” is a meaningful, uplifting work that’s as heartfelt as it is ebullient, and effortlessly demonstrates what makes WildeHopps so great. ~DrummerMax64

Author: RemyW

Description :

Ever wonder what happened between the museum hustle and Nick’s graduation? Filled with hilarious banter and heartwarming moments, follow Nick and Judy as they learn to trust one another and build a friendship despite their differences. As their bond deepens, tensions rise and chemistry flares. But they’re just really good friends, right?

Between the Lines

Additional Tags: You don’t need a magnifying glass to see what’s going on between these two lovebirds.
====================
While in Hong Kong, Edward Snowden claimed to be able to change his appearance such that he would be unrecognizable.

According to an excerpt Glenn Greenwald's new book, Snowden made the claim when discussing concern about leaving the Mira hotel without being noticed by reporters:

I conveyed these concerns to the lawyers. "Does he have any ideas how to prevent that?" one of them asked.

I passed the question on to Snowden.

"I'm in the process of taking steps to change my appearance," he said, clearly having thought about this previously. "I can make myself unrecognisable."

It is unclear how Snowden would accomplish that feat, and Greenwald does not elaborate on Snowden's process of disguising himself.

Snowden had other old school spycraft on his mind in China. The 30-year-old claims that he used a soy sauce and glass of water system to protect his belongings when he temporarily left his room and that he ensured he would not give up documents even under torture.

Snowden, who is not a trained intelligence agent, snuck out of the hotel and began "the part of the plan where I ask the world for protection and justice."

Two days later, Snowden leaked information to the South China Morning Post. On June 23, he boarded a plane to Russia, where he lives in an undisclosed location.
====================
E-cigs look a lot like cigarettes, but they don’t produce smoke! They are slender vaporizers that provide a similar experience to smoking with a stiff cigarette-style draw, but these devices can be used with or without nicotine. For beginners, e-cigs are a good way to try vaping, if you find the right one… We’ve been doing e-cig reviews of the top brands over the last few years and have narrowed it down to this concise list. If you’re new to e-cigarettes, our guide and FAQ below will answer most of your questions.

PRE-FILLED Kilo 1K The Kilo 1K is a high-quality pod vape with 17 incredible flavors available to choose from, each with 4.5% nic salt. The device is designed well and it has a rubberized finish that makes it feel secure in the hand. The Kilo 1K vapes quietly with no leaking or spitting, and the battery is better-than-average at 350 mAh. 9.6 BUY NOWSave 15% REVEAL COUPON

DISPOSABLE Mojo This is all you need to start vaping today. The Mojo stick is a disposable pod vape that contains 1.2 mL of 5% nicotine salt e-juice. It utilizes an internal battery good for up to 250 puffs, which is equal to about 20 cigarettes. The Mojo comes in multiple flavors and is draw activated, so just inhale and enjoy. 9.5 BUY NOW

RECHARGEABLE ePuffer Magnum The Epuffer Magnum Rev-3S puts a new twist on e-cigs. It features a user-friendly design that uses magnets instead of screws. Snap in a cartridge and enjoy. It comes with a cigarette box-shaped charging pack and two e-cigs, rated for 400 puffs. You’ll always have a fully charged battery. Excellent for traveling. 8.2 BUY NOWSave 10% REVEAL COUPON

DISPOSABLE FOGG Vape The Fogg Vape is a disposable pod system that comes in five flavor options: Cigar, Grape, Tobacco, Purple Berry, and Watermelon. Each pod lasts for 300 puffs, and with its 50 mg nicotine strength, a Fogg Vape pod is equivalent to a pack of cigarettes. The box contains three pods with the flavor of your choice. 8.1 BUY NOW

RECHARGEABLE Mig 21 Clear Fusion The Mig 21 Clear Fusion works well. Easy to use right out of the box. It works with prefilled cartomizers or refillable cartridges for a custom experience. The Mig 21 batteries have good battery life and put out a satisfying amount of power for an e-cig. Comes in four colors and includes a carrying case. 7.9 BUY NOWSave 12% REVEAL COUPON

RECHARGEABLE VaporFi Express Another good choice for beginners. The VaporFi Express provides everything you need from the start. Two devices, a charger, adapter, 3 mini tanks and a 30 mL bottle of your own customized e-juice blend. VaporFi is a company that embraces transitioning smokers. They make it easier to make the switch. 7.8 BUY NOW

DISPOSABLE VGOD STIG The STIG by VGOD is a disposable pod system that will easily replace your one pack a day habit. Each pod is filled with 50 mg nicotine salt juice in four flavor options: Cubano, Lush Ice, Mighty Mint and Tropical Mango. STIG pods are good for 270 puffs and each box includes three pods of your selected flavor. 7.6 BUY NOW

What is an e-cigarette?

An e-cigarette is a slim vapor cigarette. All e-cigs utilize a tiny battery connected to a tank, or cartridge filled with e-juice. Most of them are draw-activated — so puffing on it produces vapor, while some of them may utilize power buttons. They come in different varieties: refillable and disposable. The word “e-cigarette” is a general term for describing a wide range of products. E-cigs were some of the first nicotine vaporizers developed, before the coining of the term “vaping”. They were once a go to choice for transitioning smokers, but have since been phased out by more advanced technology such as pod vapes like the JUUL.

What is a cartomizer?

Cartomizers are a refillable e-cigarette component that look like the filter portion of a cigarette. The name cartomizer is based on two words: cartridge and atomizer. With a built-in mouthpiece, cartomizers screw onto the battery portion of the e-cig that looks like a cigarette tube. These cartridges contain a polyfill material, similar to cotton, that gets absorbed with e-juice; inside the polyfill is a little vertical atomizer coil that vaporizes the e-juice as it heats up.

E-cigarette ingredients and components

Whether disposable, refillable or prefilled, e-cigs all share the basic ingredients and parts: Atomizer – a small coil that heats up to vaporize the ecig juice

– a small coil that heats up to vaporize the ecig juice Battery – a power supply to activate the electronic cigarette’s atomizer

– a power supply to activate the electronic cigarette’s atomizer Mouthpiece – the top part of an ecig or vape tank where you inhale

– the top part of an ecig or vape tank where you inhale E-liquid – typically a mix of propylene glycol and vegetable glycerin with flavorings and optional nicotine Note: Most e-cigs contain nicotine but many can be used without it.

E-cigs and health

If you’re a smoker, switching to e-cigarettes can be beneficial to your health. Using electronic cigarettes have been scientifically researched to be at least 95% safer according to some of the world’s most prestigious physicians. Since an e-cigarette was designed to help smokers quit, health concerns about e-cigs should be viewed in the context of and compared to smoking — between the two, the health implications are clear when looking at the scientific evidence.

E-cigarette safety

You may have heard about many e-cigarette incidents on the news. They usually fail to mention that the “e-cig” used was a big high-powered device from a hobbyist that made a user-error. The term e-cig is sometimes used to describe any vape device, even the more advanced ones. The products listed on this page are simple low-powered devices that are user-friendly with a very low-risk of hazards. They don’t leave much room for error because they’re virtually foolproof. Here are some e-cig safety tips to ensure that you’re treating your e-cig with the utmost of care: Never leave your e-cig in extreme hot or cold temperatures for extended periods.

Try not to drop your e-cig. It happens, just be mindful of it.

If your e-cig has a power button, turn it off when not in use.

Always use the charger that comes with your e-cig.

Keep away from pets and children.

Refer to your user manual for more instructions specific to your device.

How to use an e-cig: 101

Here are some tips to get you started: Charge the battery fully before use.

Slowly fill the cartomizer with your e-liquid until the filler material can no longer hold any more of your vapor liquid.

Screw the cartridge onto your device.

If your battery has a power button, make sure it is off until you are ready to use — on most vapes, this can be done by clicking the button five times to turn on and off.

If your e-cig is doesn’t have a button, puff on it like a regular cigarette. If it has a power button, hold it while inhaling the vapor but don’t press it beforehand. To get the most longevity out of your refillable device, never use it when empty or you might burn out the coil. The flavor will normally start to drop off after a few refills. This means it’s time for a new cartridge.

Where can you buy electronic cigarettes?
====================
Planning for your financial future is hard enough. At SparxTrading.com we believe that searching for the information to do it properly shouldn’t be.

With so much investment information (& misinformation) out there, it’s tough to know where to start. That’s why we decided to put together a timely & comprehensive resource dedicated to helping self-directed investors learn about and navigate DIY investing, starting with how to choose an online brokerage.

So, whether you’re trying to figure out which discount brokerage to open your first account with or you want a quick summary of the deals and promotions brokerages are currently offering, we’d love to let you know that we’ve got all that info here.

Check out one of the sections below to get started or bookmark us to save your future self time.



Get the info on We’ve organized the deals and promos being offered by Canadian brokerages into one convenient location.Get the info on current deals & promotions here

How do you compare 14 discount brokerages in just a few minutes? Start by visiting our Canadian online brokerage comparison section to compare commission rates, account types, options trading and more.
====================
Russian Jewish Oligarchs To Butcher Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah” For Three Hours

Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah” enjoys the dubious honor of being one of the most covered songs of all time, to both beautiful, and cringe-worthy effect. It’s in the later category that this latest effort to cover Cohen’s classic ballad is likely to fall.

Scheduled for release this coming Rosh Hashanah – the start of the year 5775 on the Jewish calendar – the Russian Jewish Congress’ “Musical Marathon 5775″ is a planned three hour rendition of “Hallelujah,” that will feature 150 Russian Jewish notables (scientists, actors, and oligarchs like Mikhail Fridman, Russia’s second-richest man) joining a chorus of 5,625 others (yes, 5,775 people in total) in the hopes of breaking the Guinness World Record for “Longest Officially Released Song,” as well as for “Number of Vocalists on a Single Track.”

According to Yuri Kanner, president of the RJC, who partnered with Igor Sandler Productions for the project, this recording “will support Jewish identity, promote Jewish life, Jewish values ​​and traditions.”

How a bunch of Russian big-wigs singing an English pop song is gonna do all that is anyone’s guess. For what it’s worth, the track will also, almost certainly, sound like cats in heat being sat on by flatulent sumo wrestlers.

Take a listen:

[via TOI, image via youtube]
====================
MANAMA, Bahrain -- A U.S and French carrier strike group have teamed up to conduct operations against the Islamic State group.

Operating in the vicinity of the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson in the Persian Gulf, the French carrier Charles de Gaulle launched its first raid Monday against militant forces in Iraq.

France is the only other country to employ a carrier battle group as part of coalition efforts to destroy the Islamic State.

"We're are all in this together and having the Charles De Gaulle Strike Group in the region gives the coalition more options to help defeat this common threat," U.S. 5th Fleet spokesman Lt. Joe Hontz said.

French officials said a port visit to Bahrain last week was important to finalize some of the "operational details" with U.S. 5th Fleet for "integrating" the French carrier group with the Vinson.

Such integration isn't a new occurrence.

For five weeks last year, U.S. F/A-18 Hornets and Super Hornets landed and conducted operations from the Charles de Gaulle, and French aircraft landed and launched from the aircraft carrier the USS Harry S. Truman, as part of a combined operations exercise.

The 42,000-ton Charles de Gaulle is the flagship of the French fleet. It is the only one outside the U.S. Navy to use the so-called Catobar (Catapult Assisted Take-Off But Arrested Recovery) system, whereby planes are launched by catapults and recovered by arrestor wires.

Since the carrier was commissioned in 2001, its warplanes have repeatedly participated in combat operations in Afghanistan. The ship also took part in NATO's bombing campaign in Libya in 2011.

Despite the training last year, the Charles de Gaulle crew has not yet worked alongside the Vinson crew. The "two strike groups have to get used to each other," Hontz said.

Aircraft and personnel will operate predominantly from their own ships for the current mission. "With that said, forces from both strike groups will take every opportunity to train with the each other. This type of training is essential for both teams to be on the same page."

The Vinson has been operating in the Middle East since October. The entire strike group left its San Diego home on Aug. 22 with about 6,200 sailors on a scheduled 10-month deployment to the Western Pacific and the Middle East.
====================
I’ve never paid much attention to my style.

In high school and college I was more or less a ‘scrub’ who wore sweatpants and sweatshirts to school everyday. I just wanted to be comfortable… all the time. Ok, I also had of a pair of jeans and several button-downs for going out at night.

Since graduating I’ve paid slightly more attention to my style. Now, I also make sure my clothes fit me well. Even so, if you had asked me about my views on men’s fashion, even as recently as a few months ago, I might have laughed in your face. I believed paying too much attention to your wardrobe was a waste of time and money… not to mention a little effeminate.

However, as I’ve connected with more and more men who are at the top of their game – in terms of health, money, relationships, and life – my view of fashion has slowly changed. I recently began paying a lot more attention to how I dress and present myself. And I’ve been transforming my wardrobe in the process.

Below I explain the three main reasons I decided to deliberately craft my own unique style and why I think you should too.

Bonus: and learn how to double your confidence and get over social anxiety… in just 30 days!

#1: Dressing Sharply Builds Confidence

Let me get one thing straight: there are plenty of insecure guys who pay a lot of attention to their style. Just because a man dresses well, that doesn’t make him confident.

However, consider this: doing anything that makes you stand out takes a certain degree of courage. It doesn’t matter if it’s public speaking, approaching a cute girl, quitting your job, or dressing sharply. All of these things make you stand out. And when we stand out, we become the focus of other people’s attention, and we tend to feel insecure about ourselves.

However, getting comfortable doing things that make you stand out is the very cure for the fear of being the center of attention. Therefore, dressing sharply will help you build confidence. It will slowly desensitize you to the feelings of insecurity that arise when you put yourself in a situation where other people are likely to notice you and concentrate on you.

This does NOT make the act of dressing sharply a magic, confidence-building pill. No, not even close. As I said in the intro to this section, there are plenty of otherwise insecure guys who are perfectly comfortable dressing well and expressing their sense of style. But it is still an important piece in the larger confidence-building puzzle, and therefore you should NOT neglect it.

#2: Assembling a Wardrobe Boosts Creativity

Let’s get something else straight: crafting your own unique style does NOT mean dressing like James Bond… or an H&M model.

Crafting your style means paying attention, noticing when you like some aspect of another man’s outfit, and then incorporating it into your own look. This is NOT an overnight process. Sure, there are some quick fixes, but it will take time and patience, the same as improving any other area of your life.

This is one area where I definitely failed quite miserably. For the last 2 years my style has basically consisted of wearing outrageous amounts of Lululemon. Yes, that’s the women’s yoga clothing company. But don’t hate! Their menswear is on point, too. It fits especially well if you have a muscular, athletic body and it’s comfort is unparalleled. Also, as a writer and personal trainer, I spend 90% of my time at home, at a cafe, or at the gym. So I can keep it very casual (READ: sweats all day).

The result was me being the guy who’s always wearing functional, athletic clothing. And to be fair: that’s an honest reflection of my interests and how I spend most of my time. BUT now that my style is something that I’m paying deliberate attention to, I realize that this is not the one-dimensional image I want to project to the world.

Now that I’m looking at my style as an artistic expression of who I am, I’ve decided to make it more sophisticated. This does not mean ditching all of my functional, beloved Lululemon – no no no! Rather, it means incrementally and intentionally ‘upgrading’ it and making it slightly less casual, while still maintaining my ‘athletic edge’.

#3: It Helps You Bring Purpose into Your Life

You can approach nearly every situation in life from one of two angles: by simply going through the motions OR by being mindful and living with a focused intent. The latter is always the better choice.

When you are NOT mindful and NOT acting with purpose and intent, you tend to be caught up in neurotic thoughts, anxious, depressed, and extremely unproductive. On the other hand, when you are mindful, you tend to immerse yourself fully in what you’re doing, actually enjoy it, and do measurably better work. This is the goal of meditation, and why it’s such a crucial habit.

Creating an awesome wardrobe and getting dressed with purpose, each and every day, is no exception to this rule. You’ll infuse your entire day with an extremely large dose of mindfulness, focus, and purpose by simply taking the time to put together an outfit that you’re proud to be wearing. Make it part of your morning routine and it will set the tone for how you behave the rest of the day.

You know that feeling you get when you know your clothes are on point? There’s no absolutely reason you shouldn’t replicate that every single time you leave your home. You feel like a boss AND you can focus fully on everything else you’re doing, because you already know you’re looking sexy as hell.

And that’s a wrap! If you don’t already pay close attention to how you present yourself, I strongly urge you to join me and start doing so right now.

Note: I didn’t go into the details of exactly how to create a new wardrobe or sharp outfits, because I’m still only at the beginning of my own journey into this realm. However, you can expect future articles on the subject as I refine my approach to style. In the meantime I recommend browsing the Male Fashion Advice subreddit (check out the ‘Getting Started’ section on the right for some helpful resources).
====================
A Moroccan diplomatic source has said that his country will re-join the African Union after leaving 32 years ago.

The anonymous source made his comments to Moroccan newspaper Akhbar al-Youm on Wednesday, but refused to comment on whether King Mohammed VI would attend the upcoming AU summit starting this Sunday in Kigali, Rwanda.

The summit, which is the 27th of its kind, is expected to be the venue where Morocco’s decision will be formally announced, according to the source.

Late last month, the chair of the summit, Rwandan President Paul Kagame, visited Rabaat where he received Morocco’s highest state decoration.

King Mohammed’s father, King Hassan II, pulled Morocco out of the AU in 1984 over the union's decision to accept the self-proclaimed Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic as a formal member.

Morocco considers the territory as part of the kingdom and insists its sovereignty cannot be challenged.

The United Nations has been trying to broker a Western Sahara settlement since 1991 after a ceasefire was reached to end a war that broke out when Morocco seized the former Spanish territory in 1975.

The UN chief wants to achieve progress in resolving the 40-year conflict over Western Sahara before he steps down at the end of the year.

Moroccan Foreign Minister Salaheddine Mezouar has been on a diplomatic offensive in recent days, according to Huffington Post Arabic, meeting with the presidents of Egypt, Tunisia, Sudan, Senegal, Cameroon, the Ivory Coast and the prime ministers of Libya and Ethiopia to inform them all of Morocco’s decision.

Morocco has special status within the AU and still has access to services available to all AU states, but remains the only African UN member not to be a member of the AU.

For this reason, some have called in recent years for Morocco to be brought back into the fold of the African Union.

“Morocco is a fully-fledged member of the African family, and no-one has the right to exclude the Kingdom from the AU,” Senegalese Foreign Minister Mankeur Ndiaye said during King Mohammed’s visit to Senegal in May 2015. “We think that now is the time for Morocco to return to the African Union.”
